Chapter 1: Intro

Have you ever wondered what it would look like if someone refused to waste a single moment of their life? That's exactly the kind of vibe you'll get from my guest today, Ethan Jagota. Although I don't bring it up much in our conversation, Ethan is a phenomenal software engineer. But at the same time, he's also that friend who drags you along to do new and exciting things all the time. Now, if you've been following the channel, you know that I'm obsessed with people who have been able to find their principle or their main thing in life, so to say. And what I love about Ethan is not only did he find that for himself, but he will also be able to articulate and explain exactly where his ideas came from. So, as a result of that, of course, we have an incredibly interesting conversation with a few of my favorite topics being why you need to do something truly difficult every single year of your life, why you should never box people into rigid descriptions, and how he approaches building communities and the importance of it. Now, this was originally a 3 and 1/2 hour conversation, but I tried to condense it down for you into 2 and 1/2 hours. So, I'm going to start you off with one of the craziest stories that he has, as well as the enlightenment he kind of went through from this experience. And then from there, I'll dig more into how his mind works and a lot of the lessons he's learned along the way. So, welcome back to the Magnus Effect, the podcast where I document the lives of autotellic minds. This is Ethan Jagota. Please enjoy.

Chapter 2: Climbing Kilimanjaro with no experience

It was an eight night hike in uh Tanzania. So I knew I was going. Okay. And so I was like, I'm going. And then of course, you know, I texted my friends and I'm like, are down for this? And well, one of my friends, Rachel, was super adventurous, super brave person. She's like, let's do it. So me and her, we went uh flew down there. First of all, I'll just say this. Even before going to the mountain, I got super sick on the plane. I just start getting super sick and I got this severe tonsillitis. So on landing, we went to a Tanzanian hospital. Like I'm talking straight from the airport straight to the hospital. So I'm like, [ __ ] we have to cancel this thing probably. Miraculously, maybe it was a Tanel. I wake up. I wake up rejuvenated and I'm like I'm like lowkey fine. And I was like, what the hell? I don't even know how. And I'm like I'm like Rachel, we we missed we already missed our our deadline to get go. And I'm like, we let's look for another one. So, there was one leaving the next day. I'm like, let's just do it. I feel like I got this. So, right off the bat, I was starting the first hike super weak. Anyway, on to the hike. Every day, you basically hike um something 15 miles, I think 15 miles. Um, and you go you kind of go up a few thousand feet to get al acclimatized and then you go back a thousand or half because you don't want to sleep when you're uh at the peak of your where you're used to elevation because you don't end REM sleep if you're not climatized. And I mean, let me tell you, first of all, the very the thing that makes this hard is the altitude. Like, do not mistake that at any point. And anything I I I say sounds easy. It would be e it would be easy if it was on sea level, you know? It's it's just like the the the altitude is what makes everything harder. Starting off like the second day was our first like real day of hiking. I think we had 20 miles. I was still a little sick. So I was really like dying at the end. I was really struggling. And that's when I remember having this moment when I really struggle to make it to the end. I was like, "Okay, you know what? Like this is not going to be a thing." Like normally when I go do an adventure or something, I'm like, "How do I make the most experience out of this?" Like how do I do how do I maybe, you know, do something silly, goof off or anything? Like I was like, "Okay, I need to lock in, bro. I need to lock in because I barely made it today." And I I got a lot more days left, so I need to lock in. And after that, I remember being very serious about like conserving energy on the hike, all these things, taking breaks when I need to. I I you know, just I mean, just locking in. Yeah. Um before the summit every day, you know, you hiked so much. You're super sore. Very [ __ ] you know, already I was like, "Dude, this definitely definitely the hardest physical thing I've done, right?" And every day someone says something like that, the guide goes just wait till summit day. Like they literally say and anyone says anything, they're like, "Wow, this is like a long hike today."

Chapter 3: Summit day

They're like, "Summit day is twice as long. Dang, the altitude is really hitting you. Summit day is twice as worse. Every day is twice as worst." And the guys would be like reminding us, "No, no, this is not hard. Summit day is hard." I'm like, "Jesus Christ, bro. What the hell is that day going to be?" I actually recorded a vlog with the camera I brought. I told you uh I should show it to you after actually where I talk about like some day has come to mean this it came to mean for me like on this trip can I do the impossible like the way they talk it's not even about something or the day itself it's like how far can I push myself is the impossible possible can I conquer the world you know not even just a mountain there's something very confronting about like just knowing like this is hard like this is what hard feels like like I knew this was hard and I'm some a day they say everything is twice as hard, every little part. And I'm like, "Okay, dang." Do you think they do that purposely? I mean, I don't know. I mean, it's honest. I think I think it's just honest. I don't think the guides are very straightforward with you. I don't think they try to sugarcoat it. And I don't think they try to Yeah. I don't know. I think they're aware that you're I'll say one thing that's unlike anything else. They're very aware that like you are here, how do I say this? To get to the top and you are not here to give up. Yeah. Exactly. So, that's something that came I guess I'll start by saying this. So, so anyway, so summer day, okay, so so summit day is starts at 11:00 p.m. You have to hike at night because um there's avalanches during the day. So you go start from 11 p.m. and it ends at something like 400 p.m. the next day. So you're hiking for uh something like 16 hours if I I don't know if I Yeah, 16 hours, something like that. Um so right off the bat, things that are different, you take no breaks. I told you this. So once you're above a certain act certain altitude, your body does not recuperate. It does not recover. Yeah. Because at the end of you're just on a clock. You're just your brain is slowly running out of oxygen. And if you break it doesn't change anything. You're still running out of oxygen. The limit is not your muscles. The limit is the amount of oxygen. Yeah. So you know your summit day is 16 hours of hiking. You know you're you're going at the highest you've been. You know you start at 15,000 you're going to 19,000. So, you literally climb 4,000 ft uh in in one day. Uh it's at night, it's freezing. It's negative at one point it's negative 10°, I believe. 10 degrees Fahrenheit. So, you have all these layers on. I mean, I'll say this, Rachel is in really good shape as you know, and the and one hour into summit day, she starts throwing up and she just was collapsed and started throwing up. I remember I of course stopped for her and the guide is like, "No, you need to keep on going." So, you cannot stop. we cannot take breaks, you know, she if she has if she's gonna make it, she's gonna make it, you know, and so one of the guides stayed behind her with her to be clear, but but they were very serious about this. Things I saw on summer day were crazy. I mean, right off the bat, I I saw a couple hours in, we saw this woman started screaming. That was her that her fingers were in pain and she was screaming, really in pain. And she took them off and they were frostbitten. Oh my god. Yeah. And so that was um so for contact your group had five guides. So it's meant to be so that things happen, right? Groups get split, all these things. So yeah, I mean she was it was very crazy because she was screaming. I saw her hand was starting to not it wasn't it was like purple on the ends. Yeah. And again, one of them for our group tried to stop. You cannot stop. But one of the guides actually went with her. One of the guides actually walked her down. Um ended up these people are beasts. They made us around. They ended up catching up with us somehow. Um, and do they do they go back to or do they take them all the way down or is it do they just leave? I believe that that he took her all the way down to base the latest base game. Okay. Um, and I don't exactly know what she was doing there or how did I don't know if maybe she was out the group or what, but yeah, crazy. Um, I'm trying to think other memorable moments. There was this moment where these two Okay, these two super burly Russian dudes that were rock climbers. They were just really into scaling really cool rock and climbers uh uh uh mountains and all these crazy things. Um I remember one of them just collapsed on the ground and uh someone nearby that wasn't part of our group was like do you need to go home? Do you need to go home? And mind because mind you a guide would never ask that. Guide would never ask that. Um uh and he was like and he's like set for a second. He's like home is on the summit. And I was like bro that's such a oh my god that's crazy bro what the hell bro? It was crazy. There's so many of these crazy moments. Uh I mean, bro, yeah, summer day is just like it's 60 hours of straight hiking. It's extreme altitude, freezing temperatures, it's literally pitch black at night. Um it was crazy.

Chapter 4: What it's like to experience hypoxia

And I remember there was this moment where just the sun was just starting to come up and we're on this face. How do I say? We're on this trail that has these steep faces on either side. So you don't you can see really down. I don't know. So many if you fall off you're going to die kind of on both sides, right? Yeah. And and I'm like I remember looking back and I was like dude this is like literally out of like the movie Secret Life of Walter Midi. Like I don't know if if anyone is I love that movie. It's such if you have not as as a as a listener to this if you've not seen Walter Mid and you the kind of stuff we're talking about you have to see it. It's such a fire movie. I remember thinking I was like dude this is like I'm in that movie. It's like that level when the scenes when he's walking across the crest of the mountain and winds pour like pounding his face. I you know had ice in my beard. I'm like this is crazy. Right. And and this is I mean mind you this was this is six hours in 16 hours. Okay. Um the craziest part is at the top when I got severely hypoxic. So for hypoxia is just when you your brain starts to go into like a crash because of lack of oxygen. And what happens is you experience what's called a hypoxic crash before going into this mode where your brain floods with endorphins. Um yeah it's crazy. So I was sitting here and I like suddenly I I literally started crying and I was like looking out of this I mean like you're thousands of feet above the clouds the tallest cloud level are thousands feet above you see everything and I'm like I remember literally thinking I I spoke to God I'm not a spiritual person I'm not religious at all and and I I on on the way basically as I was climbing this mountain shortly after I was talking about the secret life of Walter Moody I started thinking about how this mountain is alive and And just like a living thing that adapts and changes throughout its life, this mountain had a was born, you know, when when I mean, well, for Kiljar, it was a volcano. It's volcano. So this mountain was born, you know, when the magma pool ended up building up it, right? And and over time, you know, erosion, things like this, take from it, change it, it interacts with the ecosystem. I was just thinking of how Ron is alive and and when I be and when I became when I had this hypoxic crash I I thought about this idea and I thought about how the whole world is just one thing and I think that that's what God is. It's just an alchemy of everything interacting each other and being one massive life form if that makes sense. So when you were speaking to God it wasn't even like a person or anything. It was just like top the clouds. I was just like this whole thing is alive. I just the world is like one and I've just never I don't even know how to describe it other than like it just seemed so obvious and I had never thought about it. Yeah. It never fully I could even now as I talk about it it just sounds like words right now. But it was like such a it was a feeling. Yes. That I I never I will never be able to describe that feeling of feeling like I am like actually part of this larger organism. Um, and I mean I literally just was just like, "Give me whatever I need to make it to the top because that's where I'm going. I'm making it to the top." And shortly after that, you know, when the when Endorphins see I was, you know, you're you're you're screwed. I was just falling. I would I would just stumble and I would just fall into the snow completely. And then I'd have to stand up like I like sit myself up and then I'd get up. I push myself up and then I like take 10 steps and then I would I would just do the same thing about it. I do this again and again and again. I just fall just completely basically pass out and get up again and I'd pass out and I get up again. And the hypoxy crash was it was actually right when I hit the false peak um which is about an hour from the real peak. Um and so I did this for like a full hour just mind you I was far behind the rest of the group. Um and and so when I got literally I'm like a couple hundred meters hundred meters or something that from the summit the head guide okay cuz he's with the group the main group right that's way ahead of me they're actually on the way down and he sees me and he sees me my condition and he so they have a pulse oximter which measures your oxygen content on them and he's like he's like we need to check we check you and he's like 0 to 10 0 to 10 0 to 10 because that's what you do for like checks how do you feel I [ __ ] I was like zero. I literally was like and he looks at my face and I like held up my face cuz I I mean I'm telling you I've never this weak in my life and I registered a 62 on the pulse oximter which I you probably I'm sure no one I don't know what that means what oxygen percentage saturations are but look it up or something. It is bad. I'm not supposed to be conscious that is most people will pass out before be getting to 62. Um, yeah. Anyway, that's bad. And he takes this and he's like, "Turn around. Turn around. We need to get him down. We need to get him down. Mind you, I'm 200 meters from the start from the summit." And I locked the [ __ ] in. I said, "No, no. I'm I I'm getting to the top. No, no, no, no, no, no. I'm I'm getting the top." And I and I told him I was I told him I was like I was like, "If you try to force me down, it will take way longer than just letting me go up top." And he said that I said that to him. He was like, "Okay, okay, okay. So I So I was like I went at the top but I was telling me we like I didn't I wanted to do so many things at the top. I was like oh you know I I bought a Berkeley flag I was going to do that and I was like you know take pictures. I get to the top and that guide was like getting to the top but you turn around the second you get there. I'm like okay that's that's fine deal. So I took one picture that picture I looked so sick in it. I look so because I really was and we turned down and bro it's crazy after all the adrenaline and so much will to get to the top. That's the other part of hypoxia. I've seen documentaries and stuff people climbing you know crazy mountains. The thing that's great that's really the most severe symptom of hypoxia is how tired you feel. There are so many cases of people who are experienced mountain climbers climbing you know they've climbed dozens of times before hundreds of times before and they fall and they find them a fall asleep on the mountain just asleep and they die there and it's like what would empower you to sleep because hypoxia makes you so tired you will literally even though you know you will die just fall asleep because willingly they'll find they'll find people in their sleeping bags asleep and when they should have known they're going to die if they do that and that they do anyway. Um, and so on the way down I would just be like, it wasn't like how I was like collapsing cuz I was so weak. It was more I was just falling asing sleep. I was micro one of the guides I was on his shoulder and I was micro falling sleeping which is when you sleep and then you enter REM sleep but only for a few seconds. So you actually dream but only for a few seconds and you and you like that and then you so even if you're walking no matter what you're doing you fall asleep. It's very [ __ ] weird. It sounds I I was talking to a friend who said he said it was like daydreaming, but I was trying it's hard to describe the difference. It's I think the difference is just very involuntary. Yeah. When you're daydreaming, you at least if you're locked in, you're not going to [ __ ] fall asleep, right? This is no matter what you're doing, you just start falling asleep. It was very weird. And

Chapter 5: Misogi: The art of doing something impossible every year

the entire hike down, which was another se five hours, five or six hours or something, was me falling asleep and it was really struggling. It was crazy. So, this this whole experience was I mean, yeah, it was it was an insane. So, did it just was it a flash? You you made it to the top and then suddenly you blink maybe a hundred times and then you're at the bottom or uh No, I mean I mean it's it's Did you feel everything? No, I feel I mean you're you're not I'm not asleep. I'm just you know this kind of thing, right? Um yeah. I mean I don't know. It was it was crazy. They also were they were really really wanting me to get down as fast as possible. The guide was we need to run cuz he was like you're going to the guide was literally like you're going to pass out. And apparently that's not it's both not good for your brain to pass out at high altitudes and also understandably it's much harder for them and much more dangerous to them to take me down as a limp body. Yeah. You know, they were really like like you cannot we do not want you to pass out. We you cannot fall asleep isn't the right word, but you cannot fall asleep, you know, like um and so they were we were like running down this mountain on on the way down. Um it was crazy. And it wasn't until I slept I think I I remember I slept for something 15 hours, something crazy. Um they have a whole they have a full on the campsite or what do you mean on the campsite? They actually had a full like meal celebration everything. I missed that because I was fully you know and I mean that is where differences in the fact that I didn't prepare like come out the other people did not get so hypoxic right. Um but on the other hand you know to people who hear that and think oh wow you know that's what you get for not preparing but I'm so glad I I'm so glad I didn't wait to go and I didn't and I didn't say oh my god I I don't have time to prepare so I can't go. I'd made it and that's all that matters. I made it. I had that experience. In fact, I actually would say this. If it was any easier, I think I would have gotten less out of it if I prepared more. The fact that I made it and man, it was so truly I've never had to push myself so hard. I mean, honestly, never. And I think if I I wouldn't have any other way because if I trained more, maybe it would have been easier. Maybe I wouldn't have had to I wouldn't have learned my limits so much. I wouldn't have realized that I can push myself so hard. So, I'm very grateful for where I went and and I I think I've said this to you. I think this is something that everyone should do. I think you should have there's actually a Japanese term for it that you mentioned. Yes. Misogi. Misogi. I think do something hard, truly hard like this once a year, something like that. I think it really changes who you are as a person. It opens up your life and and just your the the type your how to say this. The breadth of what you can experience so much. very um very true to your word what you told the uh the hikers at the beginning of having a very strong I I told I'm like well you know I feel like I'm in generally good shape and I have strong willpower so I got this I I I'm glad that that's I'm glad it was that hard honestly because I I I wouldn't have been able to prove to myself that I could do something that hard any other way I think how do you think you're going to discover the next hard thing from here that's a great question something I've been thinking a lot when I when I ask a lot of people they're like oh you should climb this mountain I'm like but that's not the idea idea right to the point. I've already done that. The idea is don't don't go and climb a hard. The idea is I want to find some different category, right? Do you think it would always be physical by the way? Oh, of course not. Of course not. There's nothing special in my mind that's physical over something else. Um, some ideas of things like I mentioned, I believe strong in the idea of what what's the Japanese term that we talked about earlier? Oh, misogi. Misogi. Yes. I I I really believe in that like principle that you should like push yourself to do something really hard or adventurous or something out of your comfort zone and I don't think it has to be like I think that general idea just has to be outside your comfort zone, right? So to me like I think before Kiljaro I did free diving and that was a really crazy experience. Um and that was what I would say was before and and I think like something after I see I really want to get my skydiving license. See that's a less that's it's a different thing and and they all should take different forms. It's not like I'm going and doing this one feat. It's obviously like over time you have to do about 25 jumps to your license. Um, but I think that that'd be something that could really unlock a lot and add a lot of my life and uh and and yeah, I think it'd be something out of my comfort zone. I've gone tandem before, but obviously like like I definitely the idea of going alone, but it sounds so it sounds scary, but in a way where like I've researched that there's very low risk and so I know that the fear is in my head and that that's something I want to get over. Have you found anyone else in your life that like shares the same I guess philosophy?

Chapter 6: The start to an addiction of chasing fear

Well, everyone has different philosophies, right? So, I think like I found people with significant overlap. So, I'll say I guess two things. So, first of all, the philosophy of comfort zone. I think my roommate Jay shares that a lot. Um yeah, I I think that when we go on trips, he's the same where he like he's like, "What's the craziest thing we can do?" You know, how do we chase, you know, adrenaline? Things like that. And I think I really admire that. Um I think we share that philosophy a lot. He also really believes in chasing stories. Um I also think you know I mentioned a friend that went to Japan. Um you know she really believes in chasing stories. Um and I also leave you know my girlfriend. I think that's another thing you know she I think I think a lot of people in my life they share this this idea of chasing stories and um and just doing interesting things. Um, and yeah, I don't know. I think I think everyone has a different take on it. Um, but I think that that's what's cool. Like you you kind of, you know, like for instance with Jay, I would go to um more of something like I think like more extreme like we went cliff diving in Mexico or something like that. Um, with my friend I went to Japan. You know, we do more like cultural things putting I feel like she's very interested in meeting new people that are different from us even though she's less of an adrenaline junkie. So, I think for every everyone it's it's different and uh I think that's one of the cool things about life is I can go with different people and experience different things. What do you think? I'm sure you have a ton of stories on this. Do you have like that one kind of experience that like solidified that idea for you? It's like, oh, this is this is why I should do it because this event happened. the idea that like I'm so glad I took this risk cuz I had nothing to lose and I wasn't going to die type of Well, okay. So, I don't think this this idea came out of one thing, but I'll say this. When I was little, I was scared of everything. I mean, much more than the average kid. I didn't like roller coasters that thought they were too scary. I didn't so much. I feel like I was had social anxiety and all these things. Um, and it wasn't until I just I started getting to things where when I did something I was afraid of, I felt like, wow, I I unlocked this whole thing that I didn't wasn't able to do before. An example is roller coasters. I actually remember this very well. Um, and I was in fifth. I was like 12 or 11 or something, right? And and the first time I went on a roll, I finally pushed myself to do roller coasters and I was like, dude, this is such a cool thing. Like I was no afraid for no reason. And then I was like, "Okay, what other things are like this?" And I think I I had conviction that I realized after doing a couple of these things and I'm like the I think every time I've done this something like this um push myself out of my comfort zone, I realized that you actually get a lot out of it and any temporary maybe fear coming up to it is abated by the joy of overcoming that fear. Um, and so that reason I kind of very quickly throughout middle school tried went on a kind of journey to okay, I'm this super scared kid more than the average person. How do I change that? So everything I was afraid of I tried to do and I pushed myself and I think that I've got so much life and I think I still do that today. I still don't think I'm perfect. I still am sometimes irrationally fearful and and I try to push myself that if I notice that do the thing and uh I think that's kind of where it came from. Do you think that was um something you confronted by yourself? Cuz I had the same issue right

Chapter 7: Why solo traveling changes you

back in fifth grade. I remember me and my older sister, we would go to the amusement park. Um and I was scared of the fastest roller coasters, but I remember she would threaten me. She's like, "Oh, if you don't go on this, like I'm going to tell my I'm going to tell mom and dad, you know, you pussied out." I was like, "You can't do that. You can't do the fine. Okay, I'll go." You know, it's like that that mentality that someone else is next to you that wants to to do something and you don't want to hold them back. Yeah. Is that something that um you think benefited you or was this more something you need to learn inherently by yourself? I think it's actually important to do both. Um going with other people is a really great way to push yourself to do things outside your comfort zone, especially because you don't realize it, but just naturally living life, you choose the paths that you are used to choosing. Um, and I I think I've realized that when you go when you solo travel, you actually have to be more mindful to try to do things outside of your comfort zone because you'll so automatically be like this thing looks cool and the things that you think of look cool are familiar and all these things, right? Um, what was going to say? I would say when it first started out, um, I would actually say the very first thing started out is probably with my mom. Um, the roller coaster thing I mentioned, uh, I think she kind of she never pushed me to do or she she did push me, but she never forced me to do it. She just kind of was like, "Hey, we don't have to do it now, but you should just watch them." And, "Oh, next time what do you did it now?" And and I don't know. So, the first thing I when I first started overcoming fears, I was really slow. And I think just it's also a muscle. The more you overcome fear, the more you're looking to overcome fear. And also, I feel I've trained myself at this point that I feel I get dopamine out of overcoming fear because I just realize how much it's pays off. Every single time I overcome a fear, it's paid off so much in life. Um, and so I don't know. Yeah. I mean the I I would say that honestly for anyone who is trying to do this, I think it's actually very important that you do not just one of those two things because you need to have that muscle and ability to do it yourself, but also it's so much easier to do it with other people and you can take advantage of that as well. I find it interesting that you brought up solo traveling there. Yeah. Um why why uh would do you prefer solo going traveling solo as opposed to with other people? Yeah, I I wouldn't even say I would prefer it. I think they're are different things and I think they both have their place. Um I think that when you go to okay when you travel to another country that I I think you want to be as adventurous and spontaneous as possible and solo traveling is one way to really feel like you're if you do it properly to really feel like you're in the culture experiencing their them as a a inhabitant if you if you do it the right way at least you know. Um, okay. As an example, when I went to when I went to solo travel to China, right? Um, I stayed with a family, I stayed with a family there, and we would do things like we would get dinner. Sorry, her um the host's wife would cook us dinner and I eat with the host family and all these things. And if I was going with a big group, I can totally imagine that it's like the hosts kind of feel like the guests because you're um it's like everyone's there with you. It's not. Yes, partially, but also just you if you're with five other people, you are surrounded so much by your culture, right? And a host maybe is trying to learn your culture, all these things, but when you're one person, you're really surrounded by them. And for that reason, I actually think I don't think you actually have to solo travel to do this. I think if you travel with one other person, for instance, I think that's also okay as long as they're the right type of person and really aligned with your goals in this. Um, and I' and I've had experiences like that, too. But I think that when you travel with the group, I enjoy traveling with the group. It's just a different purpose. At that point, whether you want to or not, you end up being on the trip with the group and not with the people you meet. And so I think that's that you not people that you meet. I I mentioned to you that like one of the most amazing trips I've ever taken was to Japan and I went with just one other friend. And that was so great because no matter where we went, you know, we could just be we would we would often times go up to random groups and be like start talking to people and I start a conversation with Google Translate and maybe an hour in I you know they would just be like come with us to the other bar or or I would be like what are you guys doing tonight? Can we join? And if I had a big group I think I definitely cannot do that. I cannot spontaneously be going to people and what are you doing? Can we join you? Yeah. I remember I was trying to plan a trip with you um winter break. Unfortunately, it fell through. But one of the things that you brought up was you didn't want to go to some place that felt like America. You wanted some something non-European, I think was the way you said it, right? And it got me thinking as you were talking about your story right there. Um why a lot of people probably enjoy traveling or they want to travel. It's like this this feeling of novelty. Yeah. Right. And on this topic of what I want to kind of talk with you about today, you I think you view a lot of learning a lot of things in the world with novelty. Everything in the world is very novelty. Do you think that's one aspect of why you enjoy traveling so much or um kind of why that's a strong part of your identity? Well, so yeah, I mean I I think actually in fact I should just we should get more into this later, but I think I I'll answer like this. I think my core philosophy of life is impact times experience and and I've thought so much about meaning about what this means and I've rewritten kind of subtleties of it over the years but I've had this this equation in my head for so many years you know the impact we kind of touched upon for me is an example of maximizing the impact that you can on other people traveling is a way to impact to really maximize your experiences to me what maximizing experiences means maximizing the breadth and depth of things you experience in life and the memory vulnerability of each moment of of time. And I think there's just no other way better way to do that than traveling. And I think that manifests itself in a few different ways. You know, it doesn't have to be you're engaging the local culture. You can also travel with a group and have a great time. Um, but wasn't going to say, but I think at the end of the day, it just it maximizes the memorability because everything you do, whether even if it's as simple as going to a cafe, then even that it's novel because it's some there's some different thing you you remember it very well, right? And I think um I mean how this is even going deeper, but you know when you talk to people who are older and you you hear these people that say something the last 20 years, it feels like every day is the same day, right? That's what I was trying to say. I'm like, dude, like I so want to avoid that cuz I I mean and it's it's easy to get into. It's easy to have this week be the same as last week and then you look back a month later like what did I do between those two weeks? I want as much as possible every week to be distinguishable together because it was it was I did something crazy like that week or something cool or it doesn't have to be crazy. It just has to be something memorable, right? I I I don't even think I actually think that you you mentioned I'm maximizing novelty. I don't think I'm maximizing novelty. I think I'm maximizing memorability which I do think is different because there are experiences that are memorable that aren't novel but obviously they're very aligned. I think those are very um coordinated things. But yeah, I think a lot of people enjoy traveling so much because they live a life of a lot of mundainess, you know, and physically putting yourself in a different location is the only way to kind of break that um forcibly without actually putting on a mindset of have to take more risks. You just naturally take more risks when you're in a different world, right? Because you just don't know almost a kid. Again, I think yeah, I think taking risks is first of all, I do think that's a benefit, but I think the core of it is just every all the branches that you can diverse and things you can do are such a different set of branches, right? Um first of all, I mentioned the example you can go to cafe and and and all that and even that's better or at least more memorable. Um obviously, but when I'm traveling, I don't I try not to go to a cafe, right? I try to do whatever is like the most different thing. Um I I think there's two different ways I think about what I want to spend my day with today. If I'm traveling, there's uh first of all doing something memorable. Maybe I'm going to some some experience, something that I cannot do back here in SF. Or maybe it's connecting with the

Chapter 8: Impact × Experience: Ethans life principle

culture um that is there. Like an example was like I spent one of the days I was in China, I went to Chinese mall with my host family. I would say the mall wasn't actually that different from the US. Obviously were some differences but definitely was not the most different thing or new thing I could do that day but it was very cool because I got to connect with my host family very a lot and learn a lot of the culture talk to them so much and so that was more about that and that was very memorable to me. What I find interesting is you approach that as that being the reward. And I this kind of goes back to what we were talking about um EV situations, but I want to I want to pick your brain on this thought I have where it's I wonder if people approach these experiences or taking more risks as a way of they want something out of they want more stories. You know, everyone loves talking about that. Oh, I want to travel so I can become more interesting person. I could do this. I could do that. instead of really um being present and experiencing what it is that's in front of them. Um do you think that's a reasonable take or I I think I'll push back on some of that. So I don't think you should travel to become a more interesting person. But you know I think traveling to create stories I don't think about it I don't think I think about like the end result is I have a story I've achieved. I have this thing. Wow. It's like I don't know cash I made or something. But I actually think that if you chase stories I actually really believe in that philosophy because it aligns with so much about making the most of life. Um I don't know. I I also something that I've always found very was ve very important to me is not living a mundane life or a life that could be lived by uh your average person and I think chasing stories is really fulfilling because it really aligns with that. Um yeah I don't know I I also think chasing stories is aligned with making things memorable so many things. So I actually think that that I'll push back on that part because I think that is that is something I I I do. Tell me more about why you how how this developed. You know, you we talked about taking more risks and the feeling of being alive or how you felt alive after you start realizing that.

Chapter 9: Difficulty is exaggerated from the outside

Um but to the extent to which uh you do so how do you think that develop? Because most people don't have that conviction, right? Yeah. Most people it's just like, oh yeah, I'll maybe tell that girl that they're cute if I see them on the street. But that that's the extent of it. They don't actively try to live life every day in a novel way. Yeah. First of all, I believe in just maximizing life full stop. And every access I chase, I want to maximize it. And that's why that's obviously not something just about traveling experiences. This is something everything about everything. And think about the things that we as humans aspire to do. The the person you hear on the news that climbed Mount Everest or the the person you we hear that I don't know walked across America on foot. All these random things, right? And and when I look at those things, I'm like, well, let's do that. Because I think the difference, one of the differences between me and LS people is they hear that and and they think that's crazy. But to me, I'm like, dude, that's such a cool thing. We should use as an inspiration. Why? Why can why can we not be there's nothing stopping us from doing those things ourselves, especially if you aspire, especially if you admire those people for doing that. Why would you not do it yourself? Become the person that you would want to admire. I mean, that's how I see it. I think it just Yeah. I mean, I don't know if that answers your question, but I I I at the end of the day, I just think it all ties into just being the person that I the people I look up to or whatever I want to be. I believe in extremely d dieh hardly chasing that. How do you perceive difficulty? I think that's a that's a really interesting topic I can think I I want to talk to you about because um you do a lot of difficult things and similar to what you said I think it reminds me of that one quote that goes somewhere along the lines of you can't you shouldn't idolize the people you see online or you shouldn't your your heroes are fake because at everyone at the end of the day is a human and they got to the point where they are today by doing something very simple every day right so um I don't know if that's the way you think about difficulty or how do you feel intimidated about the I mean, a couple different things. First of all, if something's simple and it's cool, I I admire someone for doing that. It doesn't have to be difficult to be admirable. I I really don't think I mean, yeah. In fact, I I often think that the people who found that thing that is simple and creative or or even sometimes more admirable because it's they were able to be different and and think and beyond the outside the box, right? Um, but yeah, was gonna say I mean how I think about difficulty. I've discovered it time and time again in life that a lot of things people say are difficult are not that difficult. Um, so I can use a couple different examples. Mount Kiljaro, right? As you know, I I went over the summer. I've been thinking for a while, okay, I have this bucket list of things and one of the biggest things and it was climb a mountain. I really want to achieve this thing and I think it just seems to represent so much of something that will align with who I am. So, I literally went online and I was like, "Okay, what is the hardest mountain that I can climb without I'm gonna, you know, I'm not I'm too busy right now to go on some to train to do how does this do be a proper mountaineer and have to do climbing courses and all these things, right?" Um, so what's the hardest mountain I can start out with? And Nako Majaro was very easily like that decision. And and so I think I told you this, I actually didn't train for Nako Majaro at all. And and people when people hear me say this, people doubt that's true. I actually did not train at all. And when I went on this trip, it was crazy because I I I the opening conversation of of course, you know, I had a group that that you climb with, you know, you you join shepherds unless you're really really experienced, you have to have shepherds that are native to the mountain to to take you up. Um anyway, so I went to this group, you know, and the first conversations are like, "So, how did you train?" You know, and bro, man, the people on my group were the most in shape people I've ever met in my life. There's some guys, well, I actually just came back from a 30-day uh uh excursion where we hiked 400 miles through the Amazon jungle. And he showed me pictures of them carrying their tent on their back and every night going out and they even showed how they would find food in the forest. And I'm like, "Bro, that's crazy." Also, this guy is 63 for context. He did all that at 63. That's crazy. And anyway, this other girl, she had just climbed two mountains in Nepal that month. And I'm like, "Dude, wow." So, everybody had these stories like that. and and and of course they would be like for me I'd be like I'd be like yeah I'm generally in shape I think I think I have a lot of willpower and I'm not lik and and and was it harder for me than those people I mean look I'm going to draw was crazy hard like crazy difficult but and I definitely had a harder time than people who were properly trained but I just at the end I was just like you know I think I can just go and do this thing and bro so many things okay you can just go and do the thing another example I use a lot is building, you know, as you know, to build products to just be a builder in general. And and when I first changed into computer science, I actually learned pretty late. Got into the world of coding and all these things. To me, I got into coding to build things, right? I changed my major and I was like, I want to build um I don't care about getting a job in big tech or whatever. I just want to build things. So, the first thing I do when I when I when I start getting this world is I'm like, okay, I want to build this app idea, right? Anyway, fast forward, I spent a couple weeks really grinding and I realized, right, in in the community in the computer science community at Berkeley, people really look up to builders. And it's funny because most of the people in computer science major don't build. And so, you know, you would think from perspective, people think of it as this very hard thing, but dude, I just started a project and I'm like, well, when I end up with a barrier, mind you, this is before vibe coding or even this is before even tab completion, okay? After a couple weeks only, I would go to the people that I that I knew were builders and I'd be like, how do you solve this problem? And these would be pretty common problems that I can definitely guarantee you would come across and they wouldn't know. So you were just testing them. Well, I mean not even trying to test them. I would just be, hey, I believe if you're learning something, you should ask people who know the thing, right? And so I asked the people and I realized really quickly I'm like, wait, after only a couple weeks or two to three weeks in some axises I know more than the people who everyone looks up to as builders. And of course that and I kept on grinding in that and I think people do people say how did you learn so much and oh my god it seems so hard I don't know where to start. I don't honestly getting into it didn't I was I was surprised how easy it was. I was surprised that the level of builders that I looked up to just shortly before I had already been their peers only after a couple weeks of really grinding. Um so I think that there's this perception things are always seem more difficult from the outside and and and like you mentioned like oh so maybe you shouldn't look up to your your uh your heroes are full of [ __ ] is like but I actually first of all I actually disagree with that idea. I think I think now if your hero is saying my thing I'm doing is really hard don't do it then [ __ ] them [ __ ] them that's then they're full of [ __ ] but you know I like like my heroes are people who like they do things that I think that like maybe it's not even that hard but like they they just go and do them like I think what matters is you did the thing whether it doesn't matter how hard it is you go and do the thing and especially I admire people who they go and do the thing and they helped other people and they tell them to say hey this isn't hard let me help you learn all these things um I don't think the fact that like it like I don't know like the fact that like I did kill without training or something like that. I don't think like making it I don't think because it's more what's the word not achievable but uh more reachable makes it less cool. I think you just got to go do it. Mhm. Tell me more about what you said about like why like what does building mean to you? Um to me just like when I have an idea I make it reality. And I I think I I I say that so abstractly because I don't think building just means writing code. I think it can mean making art, uh making music, um making hardware. Um I think that I don't know I just really building and actually before I was into coding and computer science, I was mechanical engineer and I build building I building things on that front. Um and now I'd be a lot more hardware stuff of course. I switched to software because I thought that it was an easier way to make my ideas come to reality. Um, but I don't think I don't Yeah, I think I guess that's what I define building as. Why I love podcast so much is because I I run into a lot of people who feel they talk with a lot of certainty. You know, I a lot of people I meet I there's a word that I learned recently. I don't want I think this is very derogatory, but um there's some people in this life that are very casual about things, right? Um, you often hear I don't know being said a lot. Oh, I don't I don't know about this. I don't know about that. But I what I like about the people I interview and especially you is I ask you a question, you're able to theorize on the spot or you oh actually there's this really cool story and this is how the development of this happened. How do you retain things? Cuz some people are better than others. But I also know someone who retains things by literally having this tool where you highlight articles, you shove it into an cards and you review an cards every single day. That's cool. And when you think about retention, you're saying memory retention basically. Yeah. Because you have a lot of uh I don't know if low-level concepts is like the right way to say. Sure. Sure. Yeah. I understand. I mean, in terms of the stuff we're talking about, I think biggest thing is just thinking about things a lot. Uh if something's impactful to me, I spend a lot of time thinking about what it means or the impacts. And I think the way that I talk to myself and kind of have that I end up with not just okay it's that that that memory if you will is not just that experience it's so many things tied to that right and the way I'm able to say maybe answer a question on the spot is not because I've done that question before it's because I've kind of laid a groundwork of I know the direction right so I can just improvise on top of that direction. Um, yeah. I don't know if that answers your question, but that's a great way of thinking about I actually think I actually think I'm, for instance, I think I'm actually very poor at retention. I think I have a very bad memory for for for things in general. Interesting. But when it comes to maybe stories or thinking about myself, I just think of a lot of opinions that I constantly think about and I constantly think try to reevaluate. And for that reason, I'm very in tune with what my opinion is right now.

Chapter 10: Building Berkeley's Underground music scene

Realized the benefit really of being a researcher until recently. It's like I think being a researcher what does being a researcher to mean to you? To me it it's like developing your own thesis out of like a problem or a subject that you're really interested in and then exploring that topic with so much um what's a different way of seeing research with so much curiosity that you develop a whole line of sources and um evidence towards whatever you're trying to prove. And I think that is why I fell in love with Founders podcast so much because it's like it's not sounds like I gotta check out this podcast actually very about this podcast to my friends. It sounds very in line with the kind of stuff that I I I listen to because there's so much apherisms or um axioms. I think that's a better way of saying it. Um that it's not you haven't heard them before. I'll give you one right now from Todd Graves. Um there's one that's you don't work your entire life to not do the one thing that you love to do. Yeah. Right. And that's basically saying do what you love to do, right? You inherently know the concept of the idea, but it's backed by this long history of data um that he's explaining to you on the podcast and that's what makes it so convincing, right? So that's why I think being a researcher and being able to prove your points and know where this idea is coming from is an incredible skill in communication that is overlooked. That makes I mean I completely agree. I I feel what the process you're describing is not even just it just goes down to chasing rabbit holes which is really how I believe in consuming information. Um were you the guy who would go on a Wikipedia article for two hours and just go line by line I feeling them up. I mean, dude, I feel I um you know, I I also have ADHD I have ADHD and I actually think it's also I feel like this is part of the reason why I really absorb information is I just would I'm obsessed with some of this. I was absolutely deep dive and then I'll lowkey I'll just find something else and like deep dive that. Um I mean I'm trying to think of an example, you know, a good example is so at the last place I worked I think I told you about this. Um I started something called rabbit hole lectures. All right. So basically all the Yeah, I told you this. all the new grads um once a week we would get lunch and two people would present and they'd give a lecture um so it was about five of us five five new grads so we we we two of us would present every time and it was so cool because for first of all I got to really go down some rabbit holes and present some rabbits I already gone down um and but also I got to learn other ones and I feel this really this was a how did this um a love letter to rabbit holes and deep diving on these things because I don't know it was very it was very cool I think encouraged me to deep dive on things and encouraged me to I got I got into so many of the things that they would talk about and I'm like got into myself and be doing so much research and also of course it incentivized me to do that in preparation of the lectures. Um I don't know it was very cool. That's why I think that um either part of you where you're saying I need to build more communities. I need to build I think it's a problem I care a lot about. Um I said I think I've found that connecting people is just really one of the highest impact things you can do. And so I just anything within that space I feel I find a lot of joy out of. Or you you built a club at Berkeley, didn't you? Yeah. Uh Tiny Dorm. Um I say we actually recently got I told you this, but we actually recently got cease and assist from Tiny Desk sadly. So we had to change our name. So now it's Concerts Under Berkeley. Um you can check them on Instagram for any Tiny Desk. Uh what do you say? Tiny. Tiny Desk is uh so it's NPR Tiny Desk. Uh they basically have a thing where they hold these big artists. They invite them on and they have these really intimate recording sessions or concerts. You might have 30 people in a cozy. They do them in the libraries actually a lot of them or cafes and the original vision of tiny was hey we want to bring something that's more of an intimate experience. You have superb that was hosting these giant concerts on the glade and we're like you know there's so many people that want to perform and not only want to do that kind of thing. It's I think it's more about you know connecting with the artists connecting with the music and you can only do that sometimes when you have more of an intimate experience. So it was val catering that so that experience. So it first started as I said kind of similar to NPR tiny desk. We want to host small cozy intimate concerts but it ended up growing into so much more because we ended up with this amazing musical community at Berkeley. We host all kinds of events. Uh it was a really important and and amazing thing that part of my part of my time at Berkeley. What was your um what were kind of the those core memories that you made from the from bringing people together? I think there's a couple different directions I can take this on. Um for one thing I'll say you know the impact that you make on people I think by creating community is so so vast and so deep. Um one of the members our exec I remember talking to her and she said that she was actually going to leave Berkeley because she felt she didn't fit in and it wasn't a place for her and after finding Tiny Dorm she canled her transfer because she actually found she found a place with people and I was like and and I mean I'm a good friend of hers. I'm so happy she shared that and and it was so I'm so rewarded to hear hear that the thing we built actually made a difference people's lives and you know there's been so many dozens probably over a hundred people uh that have really been active in time and really invest in the community that I'd like to think of really had similar experiences uh in terms of the depth of impact on them uh and I think that conversation was one that really you know made me think wow you know I'm so happy we carted a thing for me I was very sad that I discovered the power of community later on in my life. I think I was so individual or I thought of myself to more individualistic. It was like, oh, if you just do work or really good work, you'll just naturally fall into line with a lot of people. And I'm wondering what was the kind of development for you? Um, I know we talked about how you realize community was super important, you know, but I think talking for myself, building a community seems so intimidating, you know, inviting everyone out and hoping that everyone shows up. What was kind of the progression from community building for you? So, I guess I'll take a couple different things. First of all, I completely agree. I've actually always I think I've been into community building from a young age because even in high school, you know, I I generally to be the one that bring people together, host parties, host anything. Um, and I think tiny dorm was was, you know, very similar in the sense of, you know, we just need to bring people together. But I will say this, I think the very first thing that we did, and I'm very grateful for this, was h was bring on the right

Chapter 11: Living for connection over comfort

people. So we, you know, had a call out I for for condex, I founded this with two other my of my roommates. um amazing people and uh the first thing we did we we put out a call to bring on people from marketing because that wasn't really our expertise. Um and we we brought on two people who are absolutely amazing at marketing and I think that you know we we kind of divided up tasks. Everyone did what they're really good at. Someone was really into graphic design and man she did the most amazing beautiful posters. Um someone really knew how to run social media. Um I was more on the artist side. You know, I think where I really shine is in persontoperson interactions. And so I would just pull up to songwriting at Berkeley, which was sub club I was already a part of, and a bunch of these other groups. So there were a few communities on. So yeah, exactly. There was there was a few different communities, but I think Tynorm really gave a lot there was there was really a an opportunity because first of all, you know, there weren't a lot of opportunities to perform. Song Berkeley is a great place to meet artists and write songs, but not a lot of performance opportunities. And there were other groups that are similar that kind of occupy different niches. Um, but I would I would go to these groups. I'd even go to music classes and I'd be like, "Hey guys, you know, I just want to make an announcement. You know, we're doing this thing. You guys should come." And man, we actually put a lot of effort into our first concert. That was one of the things I think we did really right was our very first event. We spent like two full months doing this one event that is nowhere now that we have the systems running and and you know towards the end of my my college career that was we were you know doing events you know once a week often uh cranking them out. Um but yeah, you know, we got a ton of people to attend. We got really cool artists. And I think that also that first of all showed everyone that, hey,

Chapter 12: Rethinking risk: What's actually a downside?

this club has a lot of potential. Very first event. And second of all, it showed us that, hey, we're actually solving a real problem that people care about and people are want to show up and and and participate. Have you read a book called Tuesdays uh with my I have not. Oh, tell me about it. I mean, it's a TLDDR of it is there's this one there's a relationship between a college professor and a student. the student grows up and kind of lives this life where he's chasing money or making sure that he has a stable life. Um he soon gets warned that his professor has the same disease that Stephen Hawking has and so he's slowly decaying and the student remembers um the classes with this professor. he was a philosopher or a philosophy professor. And so they kind of reunite um despite not really being in contact for a long time. And it's like these letters or almost this documentation of like the professor spitting wisdom as he's realizing uh as he's confronting death, you know, and one of the things he says is uh my which is the dying professor was richer than all of us because he had people coming in wanting to spend time with him by his deathbed. And that is something that most of us don't experience in this life because we end up pursuing the life where it's much more lonier. We sit down with one spouse. We stop making friends. We have build up this ego instead of what you said building a community, building an impact, providing value. And my was providing value to so many people by telling them about his experience of confronting death. Yeah. Yeah. I mean I mean yeah, I completely agree with the part you touched on. I think most of us don't spend that time of our life really pursuing building community. I would even take it a step further. I think that our society today is based upon all these guidelines and and laws and social principles that I think they do a lot to try to reduce the chance of something going wrong or someone feeling uncomfortable. And in fact, I think one of my hot takes, if you will, is I don't think our social guidelines should be that at all. I don't think we should be trying to reduce uncomfortability or anything of that. I I think that we should be trying to optimize for social connection and community and things like this. And if some people feel uncomfortable or something that I actually think that's a necessary evil and I think it's unfortunate because you know there's simple things so many people feel if they go up to a stranger they're and they're might make them uncomfortable so they don't do it. And yeah that's always a chance. You're right. You might make it uncomfortable. I'm not going to say that you won't but who cares? If you make them uncomfortable you move on with your life. And if you go up to them and you have a good conversation then you both feel good. And I think our entire social principle should I I I think if I could rework it, it would would be based around this. And I don't know. I think there's so many different different ways I could take this. But but uh yeah, I think my hot take is is is that we should really just optimize for Okay. Well, tell me more about where when you start to realize this. Why do you think most people don't realize this? you know, in this world where we live in with tech, I think a popular philosophy or popular way that people think about life in a in a I'm refraraming what you said here, but they live life poker, right? Um everything is about an EV cost or um expected value for people who don't who don't know what that means. It's making the moves um that's going to provide the highest utility or benefit or whatever, right? But I've seen how you move through life and that's definitely not something that you do. And yet you're much more competent than a lot of these people. And it's like why why does this happen, you know? Well, okay, I actually think that I actually think I do use expected value. I actually do think I think about it a lot. The reason why I think I'm different is okay, let me let me give you an example, right? Um, so in the example of let's say going up to some random person, this guy has a cool outfit. It seems like someone I want to meet. So I think most people they make the EV calculation that looks like this. Okay. um going after them. It could be awkward. It could be bad. So, let's say that's one point of 10% chance. It's, you know, 20% chance of it going wrong and that's minus one points. And there's a I don't know 50% chance of it going right. And and most people make that EV calculation. I'm not against making EV calculation. But what I do is is I this I think if it goes wrong, it's awkward. I think that's minus zero points. I don't think that's bad. I don't think I in fact I would argue that I think that's plus points because I still proved bravery. And if it goes well, well, that's maybe even plus even more points because I proved bravery and I I don't know made friend or whatever I wanted to get out interaction. I think the fact that I still do the EV calculation, I think that I just think really hard about what is actually a risk. What is what does a downside actually look like to me? I think the only real downsides to your life if you have a chance of death, if you have a chance of, you know, really changing your life in a bad way, maybe you know losing a job you care about, something like that, serious injury, even a serious serious injury, these are all things are real risks. But getting rejected by someone, creating an awkward situation, none of those are real risks. At the end of the day, I think you're going to end up with more character and I think you're not actually going to end up worse than you are. Did you Was there a community that impacted you the most where that just solidified the idea? I know I I keep probing you on how you solidified these ideas because back to what I'm saying. I actually have a very clear um direction for how I got into community. I'll tell you. So, growing up, I have my my both my siblings are much older than me. So, I kind of grew up as as basically an only child, right? Um, and I feel like I just had a lot of time when I was just time to myself. And for that reason, I actually would end up being, okay, let me call my friends that I I ended up becoming almost kind of a very social person because I had lost time to myself. So, every day I would just be like, okay, well, it's on me to

Chapter 13: The Night That Made Tiny Dorm Worth It

go ahead and call up some friend and you know, and was hanging today. And I think because of this, I actually end up with a lot of uh friends being a very social person, calling out people. And I got very familiar with the idea that hosting something is or or inviting someone out is is such a I don't know it's such a big part of me you know there's this idea especially especially bro when you're young and you have like you know toxic middle schoolers you know people are immature middle schoolers uh there's this idea that oh you should invite someone out the same amount of time that they invite you right in in middle school I feel this is a popular idea oh you know what I mean not something sure that people as adults talk about but I remember as a kid I was very rejecting of that and I was always like No, I just I want to be the person who hosts things. I don't I don't care about that. Yeah. And and anyway, I don't know. So, I just think I end up always inviting people all doing things. And you mentioned, you know, is there a community that really solidifies me? Absolutely. Actually, the friends that I grew up with, my friend group from from my hometown, I have been friends with some people in the group, you know, it's kind of grew and grew and grew. I've been friends with some people since first grade. And so, the same friends I've had literally since early as I can remember. And kind of really just happened my entire life has been been I meet somebody really really cool. Okay, you know what? I'm going to invite them to do things with my friends and they become part of the group. And my entire life has kind of just been meeting more people and then oh wow this person's really cool and kind of growing that group and you know we still keep in touch. I literally I went back for Christmas and Thanksgiving break and I saw all of them. me we got to we got to hang out and I think that experience of growing that if you'll community I mean it's a friend group but in the way it's obviously a community that experience of that has been so rewarding because I got to see some of my friends that would be like hey you know I actually I I played a we're not really strangers game with one of my friends and and bro was so sweet she ended up long story short she just very she was very grateful for the fact that I introduced her to all my friends and ended up being she ended up becoming getting along with everyone being a part of the group and and she talked about how it kind of changed your life. And I think it's something I've always known is that bringing people together. I mean, I've already said it, but it's it's it's the biggest impact you can have on somebody, giving them a place that where they feel they belong. One of the things that I have to remind myself constantly is you can't get so caught up with the numbers, right? So, if I were to start a community, I think one of the things that I would suffer from is, oh, are people really interested in this? Is my following as big as these communities? or similar podcast, right? Where um I know inherently because when I stop, I have people who text me, hey, what happened? I really missed this. And it's hard for me sometimes to realize that the impact that you make on one person is so great or it only takes one person to make all of this worth it, you know? And I I think just the I don't know if it's how you say competitive drive or the monetary thing that you attach to it. You get so caught up with numbers instead of like the real impact you make on one person. So, I was trying to tie that into how you were saying like or what I was initially trying to say was like it's crazy how like how much your life could change from one person like giving you a chance or like believing in you, right? And that's like impact they're making on you. Absolutely. And it's not like they were obsessed with how many of those they could do for someone. They were just like, "Oh, it's you in particular. I think you deserve whatever this is. And yeah, um tell me more about like the impact that Tiny Dorm has made on you, you know, and how like the the community has really helped you in your life. Um and what was like kind of the payoff for you? You know, for me, first and foremost, I think the payoff has been I mentioned it impacted such an important part of my life and I think just the feeling of like that I've impacted so many people. Um, we kind of were just talking about like uh the experience I had with Tiny Dorm and I think that like one thing that really represented, you know, how much it mattered and what I built or what what we built what we built um was it's actually really funny. It kind of hearkens back to the that about the death bed. The death of the professor. Oh wow. I was gonna say so the day like me and the two um the two guys I founded with we were graduating and uh that week last week of college right um we had we had everyone over from Excaping the club making it what it was what it is today and we had them all over to my place and we ended up pulling this all nighter and it was just one of the most amazing nights of college we There were moments where we cried because we were like this thing was coming and ended shaped so much of our lives. um not just time obviously the call whole college experience as a whole but I don't know there were moments where we embraced and and there was moments it was it was just it just feels like something that was very beautiful and very true to the human experience and I reflect back on a lot of that night and it feels feels like that night represented a lot of what we had built and and you know what it meant to us and and it was a good closure for for what it meant. Um, we even wrote a song that night actually about our goodbyes and and uh one of one of the the person who sung in it um might might release it on Spotify soon actually. But but yeah, I don't know. I mean, Tinyorm was really an incredible experience. I think that um I've I've talked to you about this, but I was active in two clubs in college, Tinyorm and Entrepreneurs of Berkeley, which is how we know each other. And I really liked that dynamic of college because I was surrounded by such different people. In entrepreneurs at Berkeley, you have so many aspirational, extremely smart, aspirational engineering people. And in tiny room, you have so many creative people, you know, all very aspirational but in such a different way. Um really going all out in their passions, their hobbies. And I really love that I got to spend time and surround myself with both those groups of people. Um yeah I I think Tinorm was just it was great because we built it we built it at start with the intent of fulfilling this niche I mentioned to you giving artists chance to perform giving intimate concerts what it ended up being is really just this deep community of all the musicians at Berkeley we' come together know know each other and I it wasn't just people started requesting that we should just have social events and we ended up just people would just you know go to the park and bring their instruments and all these different things and and uh I don't know I I really was happy to see that it blossomed into such a vibrant community where people weren't just there to go to concerts, people were there to just live life and be with each other and um I don't know. Yeah, it was a very very very great experience. I remember when we were talking or this is a conversation that we had on a completely different day, but another thing that you mentioned that I think would be um I thought was really cool was the fact that you said Tiny Dorm was kind of like your legacy. It was like you wanted to leave something on campus. Is that something you realized in retrospect or something that you always wanted from the beginning? Um it is definitely not something that I thought about from the beginning. Um yeah, I mean the thing is I don't think I've never thought about that as a separate thing, right? My thought was been my thought was I feel like there isn't a good music community at Berkeley that really fulfills what I'm looking for and I think a lot of people feel the same way. Um I want to change that, right? And you know I was a I was a sophomore when we started the club. So I was just like let's change that. let's let's see how far we can take this right and uh legacy only came to really you know when we started thinking about okay who's going to take over after us um and there are some things I will say even when I was in college I wasn't um as active in leadership towards the end you know as you can imagine you know I want to start we we want to start uh giving a good transition to people who are younger and man we're very very fortunate that we have people who are extremely passion with the club. Uh they had come come in after us and and were, you know, obviously going to take over as leaders of the club. But it was a weird experience. It was sometimes you have to step back and be like for the club. It's good for me not to take over this thing or or you know, I need to let people make their own decisions and things like that. Um and I don't know, I think that was a really good learning experience. It's also starting to think about this is something a legacy. It really was the only choice to begin. I started thinking about wow, this is a legacy I'm leaving here. It's not just something I built is going to persist by the time of college. It's actually so so amazing and so cool that it can be more than that. And in in in high school, I built a club. Um was definitely nowhere near as big of a impact on my life I think as Tinor was, but because of COVID happening the year I left high school, the club disbanded and never got together. And so I didn't get to have that same experience in high school. Um, now, you know, I go back to Berkeley, I I sometimes attend tiny room events and it's so cool to see it's just as vibrant and and I mean it's actually still growing. Um, when I talk to people, especially, you know, new grads and things like that, I'll often meet people when I say I'm into music or they say music, I'm like, um, they'll often bring up Tiny Dorm as oh yeah, you know, in Berkeley I was in this club and I'll be and there's so many people that I didn't even know because now it's kept on going since I'm not there. And I'm like, that's so amazing. Wow. What what was what is the logistical nightmares of uh that you had to face when you're building Tiny Dorm up? Yeah. Um surprisingly the hardest thing to do with our events is securing the venue. I would think I was very surprised by that actually. Um everywhere you go, I don't know, it's just especially with the idea that we wanted a small intimate space. Um, and we also didn't want to charge people too much. We wanted it to be something that people shouldn't think too much about the price. They can just go if they want to. Um, yeah, we ended up just really struggling to find places. I mean, I can tell you in the end we ended up finding the solution we ended up realizing is

Chapter 14: The pain of becoming yourself

that we need to partner with a lot of cafes and bars and things like that and we've kind of built out those connections. Just some person worked at a cafe in Berkeley and we started hosting things there and at this point I don't think it's something you struggle with as much because we can repeat those vendors. But yeah, no, it's that's the hardest part honestly, which was very surprising because I thought surely, you know, the connection problem. But this is really just goes to show just how much the problem people wanted to be solved cuz I had no trouble finding artists that were interested to the point where, you know, for our concerts, we held auditions for our concerts. For open mics, we it's more about focusing on giving people the opportunity to perform, so we don't. But yeah, and and people want to see intimate concerts. So, I think really we had no problem bringing people in on those those both those ways. It was just Yeah, it was just a coordination thing. Is there um is there a a checklist that you would tell someone who wants to build a community around music out there right now? Well, I think first of all it's Yeah, I mean checklist I I think it's hard to say a checklist. I mean, what do you what are you trying to build? you know, if you're trying to build something tiny, we have um we have other chapters that other universities have reached out to us and be like, "Hey, we really you do we want to build one for our club." Um and you know, we usually we at one point wrote up a dock of advice. Um we we never really ended up managing any kind of chapters, nothing. We just wrote up a dock of advice, you know, said here you go, stuff you've learned. Um a lot of the stuff that we we learned, I mean, I think it was things, you know, be aggressive on social media marketing. Oh my god, we've gotten so much out of that. The fact that honestly Tinyorm has grown and existed on Instagram, it would not be if we didn't use instrument, it would not have been it would not be possible. Is it just clips of the musicians playing or um what does that look like? First and foremost, it's actually it's just that's we followed everyone we could in the music space, right? And then we ended up with, you know, they follow us back. We end up with this list of all the people who are in music in Berkeley. We also would table on Sprout a lot and you know we get people to follow our Instagram things like that especially at the beginning and uh what was I going to say? So then when we post an event, you know, I mean it just gets views because so many people in the music community see it and they share it. Um so yes, of course we share clips and and post that, but I think really it's just been getting people to the events. Almost everyone will be like, I found you guys on Instagram. Yeah. So make sure to build up the the marketing channel. Yeah, for sure. And that's one of the things I I think I even can't even give credit for building that initially. We brought on really good people for marketing um and really good people for graphic design from the start. And so that was something very helpful. Tell me your favorite favorite story of the the events that you guys hosted. The events you hosted, let me think here. Um so many cool ones. I I think one thing I I can share one event that I thought was really cool. It's also really notable because it wasn't like our other events. Yeah. Um okay, so we wanted to host a boiler room, right? And you know it's a little outside of the scope we normally do. Most of our concerts we of course let everyone we want a variety of musicians but I think what ends up usually happening is more like an indie you know a lot of originals which will tend to be indie music bedroom pop things like this but we wanted to see you know it's about music obviously electronic music just as welcome. So we wanted to host an event for that because we got a lot of feedback that people wanted an opportunity to perform there. So, um I'm trying to think. Yeah, I just think that was event was very memorable because so we what happened is we uh we rented out um uh F cap. Um dude, I lowkey might have that frat. It might have been Py Cap. I forget which point. I always forget the It was a frat house. It was a frat house. Anyway, we rented out a frat house. Um and and was say yeah, we hosted got a lineup of DJs to trade off every 20 minutes. Um, we had two floors, so we had different DJ on each floor. It was just really cool. I don't even know if I have a story for you other than it was just such a cool event. Um, I don't know. It was It was a lot of fun. I manned a bunch of different stations. I was in bartending and that was a lot of fun. I don't know. It was it was really cool. I think it was it was really unique. It's like once you get if you get tired of one booth, you just go upstairs. That was great. And also was great, I think, and this was honestly kind of accidental is so we we um the basement ended up being very packed. It was literally mosh pit, bro. Energy is always amazing. I think that's one thing I've always love about tiny room events is just energy is always so up there. Um, and then the second floor was people chilling. It was more it ended up being more of a chill vibe and people would talk to each other and I was like, it was almost an accident, but it ended up being so perfect. So, that was really cool. Yeah. Energy, right? I feel the the people that are the most energetic in this world are able to be themselves because how secure they are with themselves. Yeah. How is your relationship with yourself? And I wanted to ask if you ever did all this self-help stuff that a lot of people do, journaling or u really sitting with yourself and uh what do they say? Um surrender to your insecurities or whatnot because I think that's a really cuz I I know you you move with a lot of energy. You don't you don't really fear a lot of things and it's like I think it's easy to label it as oh just be out of your comfort zone but I think it's more of a relationship with yourself. Yeah, I agree with that. I think it's I think it's more than I think it's many things, but yeah, I agree. Um well, okay, I'll start with this. I think when I was little, I think I did not have a good relationship with myself. Um I think that I've always been different than people I grew up with or other people just I think Yeah. I mean, especially when I grew up, I think I was always different kind of the other kids in my school. And I think that I had a bad relationship with myself because I think I would just end up getting picked on and I didn't I was very insecure of those differences and I feel I wasn't even the the differences didn't give me a hard time because of themselves. They gave him a hard time because I didn't have confidence. I tried to cover him up who I was and all these it just ended up being being very insecure unconfident person. Right? And it was something that through realizing okay I have a strong vision if I'm by myself I'm happier. I I feel I accomplish more and all these things and I have this conviction that if I just am truly myself, I will end up with the right people that I want to surround myself and all these things. And um going back to today, I feel like I've realized that, you know, I think that there is never

Chapter 15: Is College Still Worth It?

reason not to be who you are in terms of insecurities. the same way you chase I try to chase um fixing fear you know if it's an irrational fear then I want to overcome that if it's an insecurity I think it's it's really about just saying hey don't let it fester tackle it head on acknowledge it and be like what do I think I I need to do to you get over this you know an example is I was talking to somebody the other day and they talk about how they feel terrible when they're when they're dumb when they go into some room and they don't know what's going on. They feel dumb and like kind of get insecure, right? And to me, I'm like, you know, that makes a lot of sense. I think for me that would mean I need to figure out how to walk into a room, but I don't know what I'm doing and how to conquer that. So maybe that looks I'm going to a bunch of different rooms trying different things and when I figure out something that works, you know, I realize, hey, you know, just try it a bunch and then I eventually realize I'm not worried about that anymore. So part of it I think is just I believe in really unapologetically being yourself because you just end up you end up attracting the people that you want to spend your time with. Yeah. And I think a large source of unhappiness in this world comes from people not being who they want to be. Maybe that's parental pressure. Maybe that's pressure from friends or something like that. You know, kind of conform you to this person that you're not. And uh I just think that people as a whole should should just truly try to be themselves and then things will come if they are that that person. I mean I don't know I I I also will say I guess I'll say one to this is that I don't just think about being myself. I also think about who I want to be. I also I think about I mentioned I admire people who do great things. So okay if I myself am not doing great things right now then it's it's not it's about being true to who you want to be. Even I think more than it it's it's which is a tricky line because you have to say I don't want to think about who my parents want me to be. I don't want to think about who my friends want me to be. I think who I want to be and focus on that. I think it takes a great deal of introspection or leaning into that that kind of moment when you actually feel alive about being yourself that you can break through um all the years of uh I guess what what am I trying to say? All the years of conditioning that you've been through. So the ideas from from birth, right, you're taught how to act because of the way that people react when you do an action. And so you as a result are kind of a a cumulation of that. Yeah. Right. Uh and so yeah, to break away from that is very difficult, but it's I think I've only recently started to realize the importance of it. You know, I also think this is another reason why it's been very important to capture breath and depth of experiences in your life. The more The wider the breadth of things you do in this world and the wider the breadth of people you surround yourself with, the more you're going to realize this is who I am. This is not who I am. If you say, you know, keep to the circles of the people that if you if you, you know, follow what your parents want you to be their whole life, you're not going to know whether you who you are with just without that, you know. Yeah. Um Yeah. I always think that the most valuable thing about ourselves in this world because it's so so vast, you know, everyone has their own lives. It's like it's your story. You know, when when I think about doing social media, you you get so obsessed with choosing a niche and trying to uh conquer some corner of this internet without realizing that you yourself are the niche, you know, and I think that's like such a freeing idea that I think I I only wish people would understand more, you know. Um because the reason why I start this podcast or the reason why I'm talking with guests such as yourself is because I was so tired of seeing everyone follow the same safe formula you know and I think careers is a great reflection of your character because it's your it's great significant portion of your life right yeah I completely agree that's just my take um no but I I agree it's when you do something that you truly want to do it becomes unique and that that that attracts interesting people that you end up if everyone was pushing to a podcast about oh I don't know what about sports or something you wouldn't enjoy it and I don't know it's the fact that you did this different and there's a million other podcasts about sports you did this unique format I think I feel things are so much more cohesive than people realize there's natural forces there's the natural forces that if you are yourself will in the long term make things come to fruition that such that you will lead a happier life with the vast life that you have do you ever regret going to college I mean it seems you are selftaught on a lot of these things and you're able to follow your curiosity it it generally ends end ends you up in the right place um with everyone saying that with how information being so democratized do you think college is still worth it I think if you're purely focused on your career well first of all it depends on what your career you're doing I mean if you want to be a doctor you have to go to college I mean let's just put that as a baseline please I don't want my surgeon yeah let's put that as a baseline med schools are going to change applications for a long 10. Um, so it very much depends on what you're doing. Um, I'll give my answer from, you know, being in tech industry and being a software engineer. Um, I think most of what I say will transcend the tech industry as a whole. But, but yeah, um, for me as a software engineer, I think that if I wanted to focus fully on my career, there's no question that going to four years of college would absolutely not be the best move. But that's also not the point. That's not my goal in life. My goal is not just to be the best software engineer possible. My goal is I mean I said it's it's that equation impact times experience, right? Um and yes, I think I can make a bigger impact my career if I skip college, but I'm also missing out on such a formative process in life, such a form of experiences, experiences I cannot get that I cannot get outside of college. Um you know, we talked about traveling, how when you immerse yourself somewhere, you have all these different different paths. College is the same way. It's very different than life as I guess an adult or out of college you can you say and you can't get that any other way. You can't get that proximity of people that are your age. I think that's very important. Um and just also like being able to pursue so much of like what you want building a club like like all these things that I was able to spend a lot of time with. Um I don't know personally my advice to everyone is that you should do college for unless like you have a really good reason for for four years but I want to give exceptions to like if you can't afford it obviously you know this is if you can only if only you can afford it and also like I don't know I do think there are opportunities that are that are like worth it over college but I just think the high bar for me for for me at least bar is extremely I I ended up doing a four years because and I'm very grateful for I did that that I did that. Um I think I'd be hardressed to see like really any opportunity that I think I would have left very early for because I just think it was such a important time not in my career but important time of like making me and shaping me to become the person I am. Tell me about um so on on like on the topic of like college, right? Like you're you're building this club that you're really passionate about when it comes to creative making music, but also at the same time like you are also building a lot of things, developing like software engineering. Um I hate the word balance. That's not where I want to go with this. I want to ask how you live two lives or how you even combine those things. So, back to what we were talking about with some people just combining two outrageously different things. How do you combine those things together? Yeah, I think you're you're trying to stray away from work work life balance. Work life balance, which I agree. I also don't like portraying it like that. Um, what I think of a lot of people have said to me is, "Oh, you have such a successful career. Oh, but it seems like you also just partied or not party. I didn't care about partying as much as I did what I wanted to do in college. I had time to have fun doing clubs, hobbies, you know, taking trips with my friends and all these things. And I think that the truth is, I mean, what are you doing on your downtime, right? For me, a day in college might look like I'm grinding during the day, grinding classes, whatever. And then I'm going to as soon as I I'm grinding until I have some event for maybe Berkeley where we have a ton of fun, you know, do some really cool thing, social thing, I don't know. And uh I don't know. I I just think it has to come do with how do you maximize your time, right? If I'm having downtime, okay, I'm not just going to chill in my room, right? I believe really really on limiting amount of time on doom scrolling or something like that. It's like I'll put it this way. I believe in attacking every part of that equation with such tenacity, right? You shouldn't just you shouldn't just impact and experience that equation. Exactly. Chasing that both sides of the equation with equal tenacity. You should not just think you should not think of work as the thing that oh you're going to grind and it's going to be maybe

Chapter 16: Rejecting self-help books and going back to first principles

uncomfortable because you have to be heads down. Obviously at a certain point is there will always be always be the moment when you're not don't want to work and you don't want to study and you have to do anyway, right? I actually think that that same mindset should apply to things outside of work too. If you want to be an adventurous person, there are going to be times when you're saying dang, I'm so tired from working so much and maybe I don't want to go to this this event. Maybe I don't want to go on this trip. But you know what? I'm going to do it anyway because I'm gonna earn that experience. Earn earn that And and every time I've done that, I've been so grateful because I don't only do first of all, you know, I as bad of man probably my body really wanted to just lay in bed, you know, and after doing this it shortly and I'm like no, this is better. I get energized. So first of all, feeling goes away of not wanting to do anything. But second of all, even if you know it's really just a hard thing and you struggle through it's still type two fun, right? Where you kind of feel I'm proud of myself for still doing something, you know? And I think that that when people say how do you have such you don't even seem how do you do such work and such life blah blah blah. I think the thing that I don't do that most people do is just want so want downtime. I don't know. I just don't believe in the idea that you need downtime. I think you can you should energize I think you should you can energize yourself by switching. I get burnt out from working and I energize myself from doing something else that's productive in that equation. Right. If I just did one of them, I would I would definitely be burnt out. When I travel for months on end, the first thing I want to do is, bro, I'm I feel burnt out of of traveling. Maybe I want to work, right? And I will do that. I I think it's I think people have this idea, the idea of their downtime or their life outside of work wrong. I don't think it should be now is the time to chill and not try hard or whatever. I think you should try equally on both the sides. You know what I find interesting? What I find interesting is like okay so you have variety right variety in life seems to be something important right uh switching between two things and then you also don't see you don't see these two things as like working on music and working on um programming it's like I get to do programming and I get to do music right I'm a little tired of programming right now let me do some music you know yeah I mean I'm a little tired of music I want I want to say I still believe and well I think the way you described It does seem to indicate that I don't believe that it's it's more I believe in working hard for everything you want, not just the traditional career. It's like there are so many times when you know I want to get this project done. and I want to I'm building something and maybe I'm stuck in a bug and bro it's not that I want to code it then but I you know we've all been there some tricky bug bro I just want to give up but you know I do believe very strongly in that know you shouldn't give up you should press through what I'm saying that I think how I'm different from other people is that all that I said it should not just apply to your career it should apply to your life outside of work it should apply that man I'm really stuck on I don't want to I'm afraid of doing this cool cool thing skydiving or I don't know like I feel I meet a lot of people oh I want to do skydiving but I'm too afraid. I'm like, but they're really successful in their career. I'm like, you know, I bet there's a lot of times in your career you push yourself not to not you didn't want to work, but you push yourself to work because you know it's going to be worth it because you care about your career. You care about your grind. I'm like, dude, you should do the exact same thing with your with your with all other parts of your life. I think that's where I'm different. Yeah. Can I ask you why how why do you think you're split between these two? So, where where I'm trying to go with this is I'm in love with the idea of people doing one thing and kind of mastering for their entirety of their lives, right? Cuz because it's what brings them the most joy. One of my favorite examples of this is this um sushi chef named Ginroe. Jinroe is this guy who's dedicated probably 40 years to just sushi and making the perfect piece of sushi, you know, or the art of everything about sushi. And it's like um people enjoy that novelty or that's he found his life mission, right? His life mission is probably to make best possible sushi and even then he might fall short at the end of his life. So I'm wondering if how so you we talked about your philosophy of impact and experience. Yeah. Do you mean why am I split between those two things? Yeah. I'm wondering if you'll ever find one thing or if that's if the two things is your one thing. I I wonder if that makes sense. I'll say this. I'll say this. Oftenimes the best things that I Well, I think the best things in life are touch on both of these. Yeah. Um, oftentimes when I'm okay, that's an example. The thing that got me into, um, the thing that got me into entrepreneurship was in high school, I started this nonprofit with my my friend and and uh, obviously, you know, I mean, goes without saying that we made we we we uh, basically, long story short, we we uh, manufactured medical equipment and um, obviously made an impact there and it was very rewarding, but it was also such an experience part. It was such a cool experience to be able to run a business. I effectively run a business even though it wasn't for-profit business. It was effectively running a business and um I don't know I felt when I was doing it very fulfilled on both these fronts. Um so it's not that when I look for a job for instance I actually I not you might think that based on what I saying I believe oh you should have a job with work life balance where you maybe don't work that much. I don't believe that. I believe you should have a job that gets you both sides of the equation. I don't think we've talked about how you came to this principle, right? How did you discover this? It's very hard. I think a lot of people have a principle or at least have some sense of it, but they can't articulate it, right? And they try to take someone else's principle or take this self some kind of self-help quote and internalize it, but it doesn't it does it's not a perfect fit, you know? So, I'm trying to understand where did you get this from? I I'll actually Okay, so I have a good answer to this. So, I actually don't believe in reading books like 40 Laws of Power or um anything. I know you said you found a lot of value out of one of those books. I forget which one it was. 40 Laws of Power. I think I don't think so. I maybe How to Win Friends and Influence People. You found I know that you said that. I don't personally myself believe in reading books like that. And the reason why is I want to be I want all of my principles in philosophy to be very built from first principles. And so, let's say how do I find this equation, right? It's really just from first principles. First principles come from how sheer experiences of life. I did this thing. I felt bad about myself. I did this thing. I felt great about myself. You know, not in a short-term happiness sense, but in a, you know, long-term, you know, um, fulfilling way. And, I was looking at that, looking back, thinking a lot about, okay, what are the kind of things like what does that look like? And so when I wrote down that equation, it was my freshman year of college. And it wasn't like that just like a spark of insight. It was something I think about a long time. I mentioned this to you when oftentimes when I think about something for a long time, I end up revisit re when I end up revisiting the same topic a long time, I end up recomputing a lot of where I already came up with because I want to go back to where I was, right? So I use writing as a place to save my spot so I don't have to recomputee that stuff, right? So I was like, okay, you know, I'm had this conversation enough. We need to figure out a way to really write this down. And so I started writing paragraphs about like what's important to me, you know. Um, and even before I really even had tested so much, I was like, I think, you know, two things I really care about are when I had this experience or when I've helped a friend, helped someone, done something that, right? And I realized that it's very simple. This is as I wrote this, I realized that there's even things that I really believe in. It's a it's a it's a multiplier, right? It's experience is times impact. meaning um if you chase only one it will be zero right you know what I mean infinite hundred a thousand times zero is zero so I don't believe I would be fulfilled chasing only one um it's only fine by you know either doing both or finding something that fulfills both I really feel very fulfilled in my life in that moment I wanted to iterate what you said um what I found interesting is you discovered it through the things that made you happy and one One of my favorite quotes that I I heard last year or beginning of this year, I guess you could say, and I'm kind of using as a good measuring stick is this that quote this quote that goes, most of us aren't trying to find the meaning of life. We're trying to chase the feeling of being alive, right? And so we find the meaning of life through the things that make us feel alive. And I think how you find your guiding principle, how you find how to live your life is through just understanding what makes you really happy. And for me that is that's been I have two things tennis and having conversations with people you know and it's like um I think that's a very great place and organic way of finding your your meaning and so being someone who has so many things that he could do that you could do with this equation how do you wake up and say oh this is the thing that I want to do today. Yeah, I mean I mean that's a good question. I think the reason why I to say the equation I do um is because it actually leaves a lot of room interpretation. You can experience any different thing, right? And kind of the same way I wanted to to act on the equation in different ways throughout my life. I don't want to just um I don't know. I don't I don't just want to make an impact on people through my job, right? I don't want to I want to do it through so many different ways, but that's a very valuable way to do it, right? That's one of many, you know. Um, so in terms of how to wake up and do that, I don't think I I guess I actually don't believe in I should wake up and do this thing. I think every day I kind of think about what's going to maximize, you know, this thing. And I found that certain things there are certain, I would say, maybe unrelated principles that you can apply. When you do something again and again and again, you start to have compound on itself and you can make a really strong impact, right? I found that the longer project I do, if I work on something that takes twice as long as twice as hard, I can make four times as much an impact, right? And you should take advantage of those exponentials. Um, on the other hand, you know, you also want novelty and breadth is important to discover who you are and also to know that you're doing the most valuable thing of your time right now, you know. So, balancing those I think isn't really in the equation. The equation is more of a higher level. Yeah. But but um yeah, balancing those is an ongoing thing. I think I'm definitely learning. And I guess what I said is obviously some of the guiding some guiding principles that help to do that, but I think there's a lot more as well. Gotcha. Okay. The reason why I asked that is because there's a word that I started labeling this podcast with is finding people finding autotellic people. Autotellic. Autotellic. So autotellic means the to do something because of the joy you get out of doing the thing. That's awesome. you know, and so I think that naturally becomes one thing for a lot of people. It's like, oh, you will definitely see people where, oh, I just love music. I I can't stop thinking about music and I just play music every day. I wake up, I think about play, and then go back to sleep, wake up, do all over again. Um, and so I'm just trying to I I'm trying to understand rigidly shove that into you, right? Yeah. I mean, I don't like I guess the things that we've talked about maybe is the best way I could think of a way to do that. But also part of it is even then even then I sometimes want to be like explore other things. I don't know. I I really just think I guess I care a lot about in life really trying to spring's everything and try to interpret life different ways. Um I I don't want to be constrained or limited by what I don't think you you're con I think what makes I think the the autotellic thing you're chasing is experience experience and then uh impact. Yeah.

Chapter 17: Traveling to Japan and experiencing something new every night

Where in my head I'm just going to say this trans. I'm not saying this is true for you. In my head I'm labeling you as someone who chases experiences more than anything and then uses that to make impact. Impact is a sub point of experience in my head. Yeah. I don't think I think I think I think I see them as equal. Yeah. I don't think I see one as a sub point. Yeah, that's great because I think there's many been many times in my life where you could say the opposite, but I am Yeah, I'm really grinding and I I don't think about I don't know. Yeah, I think there's definitely times when I think it's in reversed. Um and yeah. Yeah. Even what I was going to say is I know that you were you're you're talking about this autotellic thing. Is that what I'm doing? But I think really I I I really don't even within think see myself as autotellic because I think I want to really expose myself to other cultures and how other people think. And part of that is even though I know I believe in this equation, I want to at least be able to step into other people's shoes for times in my life and like explore what another life equation might mean for them or however they might think of it. Because I mean in fact I I think that a lot of people don't even think you know even beyond equations or anything. I want to be able to truly understand someone maybe who is I don't know maybe their whole life they've been creative and and don't think about things so analytically and I want to be able to step into that too even though that's less about how less true to myself maybe I still want to be able to experience understand that yes I think a big realization I just came to right now is again I I this is why I love bringing these up because I I start to realize how I think about these two um you have multiple autotell you you find a lot of multiple things auto telling to you. I think that's what I I was going wrong with. It's not just one thing. You know, I mentioned earlier that physics is a great way to model other things. So, in physics, a lot of times um I can describe the movement of let's say a ball or something with a bunch of different laws, right? Yes. You can add a bunch of different laws or there's some law that actually all those laws kind of are different forms of this one thing. And so whatever what seems really complicated is actually this very very simple thing. It just manifests itself in complicated ways. I think you're trying to do that and that's something I also always follow, right? Um, and I know I I do fall out for life and and I do try to put that into life, but I also think that what is this? What I want to set myself is different is I want to aspire to truly be able to experience other cultures and other things. which actually requires me in as hard as it is to to not even have that to not even have some overarching thing that's oh this is I I want to what I've realized is when I if I in those moments where I really try to experience something else and I actually get it you know I it's it's not oh this is another version of the existing model I have it's completely different model maybe you don't even think of it as a model it's just maybe the idea of model of it being even a model is something specific to the other version. The best way to understand this run is a completely different thing and that's impossible to some extent to really understand but as much as possible I want to do that. Yeah. Yeah. Do you have um something that you took from your travels? Well, I mean I actually even I even I actually think less than of about traveling when I do this. Although you might think that that would be that way but a good example is probably I mentioned that I was in Berkeley versus Tiny Dorm. And I think communicating between people when you're in surrounded by groups of completely different types. Oh, also you know what now actually even better example is my hometown friends versus my friends here. When I describe someone from my hometown to them to hear here, they try to say, "Oh, so we're they're like us, but they're less than this way." And it's just that's not really accurate. They try to think, "Okay, these are all the people I know." And they're like, "Oh, they're like that." But that's not at all. Yes, at a surface level they share those traits, but it's like they are completely different reasons. Both have completely different reasons and the way you're describing it because it's on one um it's one frame of reference. I don't know if you know um it's the idea of collapsing and you know thousandth dimensional thing into one along one dimension right and whenever you collapse something you lose some information right this is this is linear algebra or whatever but you know I think depending on the view that you look at it you always do need to look at some view it's true but depending on what view you look at it you're going to collapse some information right and you want to find the uh what was he going to say you you want to find the the frame of reference that collapses and least because that's actually how someone who maybe grew up there would look at it is is um oh my god I forgot the word for it. PCA. You know what PCA is? No. Tell me about it. Okay. Anyway, it's a linear it's a linear algebra concept uh where essentially you want to view let's say a thousandth dimensional thing in two dimensions. Well, you want to find the two dimensions where you find the most variance. So you can see the biggest difference, lose the least number of information and still see it viewable for two dimensions. Right? So whenever you're doing something you're basically doing collapsing and you want to find ideally you want to find the PCA perspective where you can actually like do it as natively as possible and I think that like yes you can always like come from a different culture and describe someone a certain way um then you're going to end up with like a not a very good model that understands it because it's going to be like losing so much information. I don't know if that makes sense. Yeah. No, it makes So my interpretation of that is like um instead of this instantaneous moment where like I'm trying to uh I guess if we were just talking about advice or asking you for advice, like instead of understanding like how you think or like what your message is to the world, um now I can I have context for your entire history or your entire story. And then from there, I get to see where that advice comes from is kind of how I'm trying to say it back to you. Um,

Chapter 18: The Skull Bottle

you're saying most people don't get that story, right? I think that most people they just take it. Most people I think most people don't realize that they're collapsing in the wrong dimension. Oh, and I'm saying I think I think that like it's important like this is like this is also going back to what you said about how like oh you know auto what is it autoinetic autotellic autotalk like you view everyone what's their you want to define their autotellic thing right and maybe even that's a higher level thing like that is one version of looking at and you can describe something very well that way but it is one way of collapsing and you're losing out like you don't know if some for some people that will be the best way of describe like obviously who they am who can ever encap ly a human brain, a human person into words. So no matter how you describe someone, you're gapsing some information. You want to do so in a way that's like and when you do with describe if you say auto principle that's a good way to describe some people, but for some people you have like a different PCA, a different dimension that you want to collapse them on. And so I think that's something I've tried to spend a lot I've at least tried to work on is yes both using what I know about people predict their behavior but also figuring out how to best describe them what perspective best describes them because then you can actually that's even the higher level of you be a really understand people much higher than even beyond just based on your own experiences if that makes sense. No. Um, so first off, I want to say, yeah, this reminds me that's probably a reason why geopolitics exists, right? Because it's you have so much nuance that other people discount and it's like, oh, why can't you just start from a clean slate? It's you don't understand all this other stuff. You know, you want to understand the best way to describe someone or whatever or a culture or whatever you're trying to describe. So, it's you don't want to use your existing model and then say what things are different because your existing model is probably from a different perspective. You want to actually see now this is to be clear this is impossible to do unless you're like really the person that's studied but you want to at least try to guess or try to figure out right what the other way of looking at it is right I think that's where you it takes a long time and it's hard to do this but that's when I've really found oh I'm actually you know people say they're bilingual they actually transcends everything because gives you an entire different it's not just use the same thing describe different way it's like an entirely different way of looking at that's when you really unlock that is when you're actually able to look in an entirely different way that it's like a different way of collapsing everything you're looking at and that takes a lot of time and it's very hard. That's what you really I think I aspire to be when I try to immerse myself in other cultures. I don't think I fulfill it to the fullest extent because it's just so hard unless you're spending a lot of time. Yeah. We can also talk more about Japan. I know I I kind of weird away that in that because the question you asked I think went a different direction. Yeah. Yeah. Or I I guess the the topic of Japan would be what you learned from Japan, right? Your experience in Japan. I mean, Japan was a incredible experience. Um, what I think set Japan apart was my experience in Tokyo was that people were very very friendly to tourists. So, I mentioned I spent a few months in Europe. And in Europe, there's a very strong relation that you that I came to understand where the more touristy a place is, the more they hate you as a tourist. It's very clear and it makes sense and it's a very clear thing that you can go anywhere. You go to a tiny, you know, Greek island. I went to Peros and man, I befriended so many locals. It was great. You go to Rome or or Paris and they're all, "Fuck you. [ __ ] you for coming to our city," you know? Um, and so for that reason, even in Europe, I ended up being like, "Bro, I want to go to the rural areas." And I ended up kind of staying away from the stuff that before the trip I ended up thinking would have been the coolest, which was the touristy spots. Um anyway, so coming in this mindset when I went to Tokyo, I realized this this is a very European or maybe Western. I don't know if even it's western. I think maybe it's just it might be a European thing. But um yeah, because Tokyo was so not like that. Tokyo was very touristy. And man, just everyone I would meet, everyone would literally end the conversation with, "Oh, by the way, I just want to thank you for visiting our country. I just want to say, oh, thank you for being here. I wanted to appreciate you honoring our our our country by by visiting always end this stuff. I'm like wow. First of all, obviously shows a culture of respect very much so. But second of all, it just really shows I was like that's so amazing. That's so I don't know. I just I really [ __ ] with that sentiment, you know, like I don't know. I think when people visit SF, I'm like, dude, I'm so happy that you came, you know, SF is so cool. I'm so proud of the city. I'm really happy that someone chose to take their time, their vacation to be like, I want to see why SF is so cool because it is, you know, and I think that's so cool. That's the general sentiment is is they're just so happy that Tokyo is some place that people are proud to visit and things like that. The other thing is, you know, I think I found in Japan, although a lot of the locals were shy, they were very, very excited to talk to foreigners and very excited to talk to tourists. Um, and so, you know, I'm very extroverted. I don't mind being the first person to talk. So, I'd go to a lot of people with Google Translate and and they would be like, so they would start the conversation with, I just want to thank you for going out to me. I feel very happy because I was looking at you. I wanted to talk to you. I would get that. I'm like, "Bro, that's so sweet." That would never happen in America, bro. People are there so much. They're just so sweet. And I think I don't even think it's that they're more direct. I think it's just the things that they think are direct are different than us. Do you know? I think in America that'd be a very direct thing to say, but I think in Japan it's not as direct. But anyway, you should you should uh pass the torch to everyone visiting San Francisco to say thank you so much for visiting Golden. So great. So because of this, I end up pretty much every day or night in Japan. Um would end up whether it's someone literally someone on the street, someone in a bar. Oh, actually I'll give I'll tell you this story. This is a crazy one. We were at a old Japanese bookstore. Super cool. And we had got some really cool uh Beatles magazines that were in Japanese. Um these are classic original Beatles mag. So cool. Anyway, so this news crew comes up to us and then we're like and the girl who speaks spoke English was like we're interviewing uh travelers who bought books from this place. Can we interview? Of course. We're like yes. And I've talked to them so long and then the girl who spoke English um we end up talking to her first of all she spoke English

Chapter 19: What it's like to free dive

because she went on exchange to Miami for a semester which is so funny and she is now a tour group in Japan. So we were like oh my god that's so cool. We should go to bar. So she ended up going us for free, taking us all over the city, taking this really cool music spot, all these different things. So that's like one example. Bro, we literally randomly met our interviewer, the news crew, first of all. So we were on Japanese n this is a national television by the I think I told you this crazy fact that we're just on randomly on Japanese national television, the full interview. Um and and then our interviewer, well, where else would I be like, "Hey, by the way, do you want to go out to the bars tonight or something?" And she was like, "Yeah, let's do it." The person interviewed us on TV. And so we went out and every night was kind of like this. Obviously none of them none of them were maybe as crazy of an example meeting people. I would just go up to someone at a bar. I remember there was a group of college kids in Japan that were at some bar and uh they're playing some drinking game. So all the drink games seem to revolve around dice and anyway and so I had actually learned the game just the night before or something. But I saw them playing this and I was like uh and I came from my Google Translate. And they were like, bro, they were so excited. They were so excited for us to play. And it was so cool. Six of them. They're like, "Oh my god, oh my god." And the entire night they were trying to teach us Japanese. And a video of all us being so drunk and trying to They were trying to explain how you say I love you. Which, very fun fact, um, the moon is beautiful. You say I love you is directly the way you say I love you in Japanese directly translates to the moon is beautiful, which is kind of interesting. And I forget. I think the reasoning was basically something saying the most beautiful, right? I know. I swear to God this I know it sounds crazy. I swear to God. Um I remember look I remember I even thought I was like dude I think is this is a translation error. I looked this up. I remember thinking this is it must be a translation error. But yeah, no I looked this up and it is it is true. So it's very cool. Um any was going to say I remember them this video of us being super drunk. Four other college kids and all shouting this down the street and we're all saying this and we're all playing this drinking game. It was so much fun. And we end up going bar hopping with this random group. And I'm tell you, every night would just be random, bro. So consistently every night I went up with some random group and like, dude, I so want to go back and I have a bunch of people's numbers and contacts. They're all, "Yo, stay with us when I go back." It was so cool, bro. It was so I mean, man, I can I have so many other things that happened. The last thing I was going to say in Japan that was really notable is our last night in Japan, we went to this uh Indonesian bar. And so this is one thing. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, this is one thing really cool about Japanese culture. They're they're going out scene is really cool. It's like every bar fits six people max. Very different from America. And a lot of these bars you end up with just this is this friend group's bar. So we went to this group and one of the guys spoke English. Um I think he got his masters in English or something. And so I end up talking to this guy really befriending him and he's like this is the bar we go to every day after work. It's literally we go after work every day we come here. And I was like first of all I wish we had that in America. just a gathering on your off time you're just with you just go there and you chill maybe not even a drink and he's like where you at my friend just wanted us to have a place the owner of the bar was bartending he's like yeah that's my friend we were all friends before this and he was like let's just open up a bar cuz we hang out every day after anyway I'm like bro what that's so cool what the hell so anyway so this guy ends up being first of all we were in the live music district and man everyone there is super into playing music which is really cool so I was one way I really bond with people so he took us around from bar to bar and every bar he introduce us to the owner and they would come out and be like, "Oh my god, you're from America. This is over Google Translate. Everything's over Google Translate." But he's like, "Oh my god, that's so cool. You should have we should try this drink. So we get a free drink if we go." I have a video of this one club. He went to this or club/bar or whatever. Again, it's Japan. It's a very tiny club. Um and and I was the owner was DJing and I was like, "Can I do it?" And he was like, "Yeah." I just was DJing for like 20 minutes and it was so cool. Um, and then the next bar, um, the next bar, okay, I remember this is a really funny story. So, I guess there's two bars of this. So, we go in and there's this bottle, the skull and crossbones on it. Okay. Okay. Um, and it's like, and anyway, so we're like, me and my my friend that I went with, Lydia, she's like, "Okay, let's get that." And I'm like, "Absolutely." So, we try to order it and the bartender is like, "No, no, he doesn't speak English." He's like, "Nope, nope, no, can't have it. Can't have it." And the guy that spoke English was trying to explain And then he was trying to explain, "Oh, that's only for locals." And we were like, "We really want to try that drink." And he's like, "No, it's too spicy. You will you understand? I'm not going to let you have it." And so we spent five minutes over translating being the bartender. So thought it was a translation error. It was literally He was like, "They must have I not understand that this is going to die." You keep pushing. Yeah. And I No, no, no. We understand we're going to die. It's okay. Can you have the drink? That's how we end up this drink. And it was 90% alcohol and the other 10% was probably ghost peppers because it was both burn your throat cuz of alcohol and also burn your throat cuz it was so spicy. But it was very cool. I remember as a point we drank the whole thing because we were like we got to push ourselves. Not as a point to prove them wrong. Just I was like if we're going to have this crazy drink, bro, we have to say we [ __ ] done the whole thing. I mean hell yeah, right? So we drank the whole drink. [ __ ] died. And and the last part I'll say to this is later on. Okay, first of all, we drank this whole thing and everybody at the bar, six people or something was just watching us drink it and there was somebody came up to somebody came up to us and was like literally was like, "Wow, you guys are really crazy." Whoa, that's crazy. Brought up Google Translate and just played that for us. It was so funny. So we're like, "Bro, it was hella made character energy. It was so funny." And later on we're still chilling at this bar and I remember there was a ukulele on the wall and I was like, "Do you mind if I play?" And they're like, "Yeah, yeah." And and uh I a little unrelated, but the last part of the story I'll say was I played like a

Chapter 20: Rethinking risk part two

ukulele song, Riptide is I think it's some of them clearly knew it even though I don't think they knew the words in English. And everybody was humming along. It was really really nice moment. I actually the bartender got it on video and he ended up posting it and tagging me. No on his Instagram on on the bar's account. The was so and it was thank you for the two Americans that graced our presence day. And I was like, "Bro, what?" Anyway, it was such a I'm telling us, every night in Japan was just so so wow, incredible. Anyway, yeah. Yeah, it was amazing place. One of the things I talked about with Dylan, too, was the was the fact that you said the most people travel [ __ ] We have this temporary and there's a very rigid structure. Tell me about how you plan trips. Um, how you how you open yourself up. No, I completely agree. I I grew up with having the very traditional family trips, which is like you go to Disney World, you know. Um, I mean, not to knock Disney World, not Disney World. Disney World can be fun to be clear. Not to knock it, but you know. Yeah. Um, versus I mean, I don't know. The thing I just described that doesn't really That's why I mentioned that having those experiences. You can only be one or two people to have like the kind of experience I just described. Um, I I think at the end of the day, people are just unwilling to put themselves out of their comfort zone and also unwilling to go up to strangers. Uh, I think one big part about my travels is the fact that I I try to constantly talk to locals. Ordering a restaurant, even if it's as simple as my waiter is at a restaurant and as simple as instead of looking up, what do I do after this? I ask my waiter, hey, what do you want to do after this? Bro, in Japan, I literally would just be random person in the street. Hey, uh, we're looking for a good place to eat. Where do you recommend? And I would tell, bro, I had one girl walk two blocks with us to show her her favorite Japanese curry place and she walked with us there and I was like, well, that's so nice. I I just think I think that the the differentiator is just people are unwilling to to really fully participate in the culture. I mean, I think it's it's either an unwillingness to it's either an unwillingness to fully participate in the culture they're in or an unwillingness to go into the strangers and fully commit to that, which is obviously essential if you want to fully participate in the culture you're in. And I think I think that's a large part of it. Do you ever have a fear that you need to know the language in order to I mean fully connect with them or I mean I don't have that fear because I fully know that's not true. I mean, look, obviously if I knew the language, there's no question it'd be easier. But the sentence you just said, do you need to know the language to fully connect with them? I empirically know that's not true. When I was in Japan, I had m I mean, and China for that matter. I had multi-hour conversations with people over Google Translate and sometimes you'd have a funny moment where something doesn't translate right and you laugh and it's great and it's more bonding. I know for a I don't have a fear of that because I know it's true. I know that you don't need that. Obviously, with that said, it's incredibly easier to do it and and I and I wish I knew the language. That'd be awesome. But yeah, you don't need it. You mentioned a lot of free diving. What was that experience like? What what made that one so hard before Kiljar? Yeah. So, I kind of mentioned before the adventure in my head that I think before Kiljar was one of the coolest things that I I it pushed myself was um I got my free diving certificate. And in order to get your free diving stupid, you have to go down uh 66 ft down straight down without with one breath. Wait, what what started this obsession for diving? Bro, it's actually so crazy. It's not even an obsession. Same friend I went to Kiljara with texted me one day and was like, "Hey, do you want to do free diving with me?" I looked at I was like, "Bro, this is so sick." I'm not going to lie. Didn't even know Didn't even know what it was. I was like, "I don't even know what free diving is." I read the description, watched some videos. I was like, "Bro, sounds exactly like something that's outside my comfort zone. Something I should chase. Let's do it." So, we ended up going to Hawaii, went with some other friends as well. And, bro, it was it was crazy. Um, I guess I'll I'll I'll The one thing I I'll say I'll finish off is this is um I was going to say so the final day you get your dive, you're going down and you basically you learn to be more and more efficient about clearing your ears, swimming down, holding your breath and every time you go down you you start with 5 meters. When you first start 5 m, which is, you know, 16 ft feels really hard. And I remember thinking, bro, how do you get to 20 m? What the hell? 20 m is 16 ft. How do you get to 20 meters? What the hell? I'm literally running out of air on five meters. Um, and yeah, you just sheer reps. I mean, honestly, you basically spend the weekend doing just so many reps of going down and doing breath holds, which as you can imagine, um, are holding your breath as long as possible. But it's interesting. One thing, for instance, I never experienced before really is when you hold your breath for a certain uh, length of time, you experience what's called contractions. So involuntary, it's basically involuntary hiccups of ab movements of your going this. In fact, if you're not careful to control, you'll gasp underwater, which obviously you don't want. So you need to be very careful not, you know, open your mouth, you're having contractions, something like that. Um and uh anyway, yeah, so um final day I was getting down to 15 meters and I couldn't get to 20 and they were okay, you know, this last chance to get 20. I literally was like, "Okay, well, at this point there's a safety diver, right? So, if I pass out, I can't believe this is the second story. I'm telling you, if I can pass out, I just think about that. Something happens, you know, worst case is I've been brought to the surface and I'm fine. So, let's just we're just going to go to 20 mters and figure out what happens." So, last dive, go all the way 20 m. And I think upon realizing, oh my god, I actually made it. For condex, you have a line next to you that shows the depth every five meters. So, you can kind of see it has little knots tied on it. Okay, the black knot is 20 meters, right? And I'm like, when I got get finally got there, I look up and you can see the ocean um surface, but of course, you're literally, you know, 60 almost 70 feet away from it. So, it's actually almost faint, but it stretches forever. And it was such a cool thing to see because I don't even know it's nowhere else do you get the view of something that's like shimmer. It's like shimmering and light. You probably looked under a pool. It looks cool. But the difference is it's just so far away from you and it's like forever. It looks like a portal to the other world almost. I would actually say it's like a you know Stranger Things. It's like a portal upside down. You're looking up and it you forget that kind of what direction is up and everything and so you're like oh my god it's just this giant wall stretching every direction. And it was just very very pretty. And of course then I went up and I mean I had many contractions on the way up but made it and it was very very a cool experience. I have free dive since but I haven't gone as deep I think obviously in the confines of having a safety diver and all these things I don't want to go as deep as I as I as I

Chapter 21: A debate on western belief to not stay together as one community.

did there. Um but that was a really cool that was a really cool time. Um yeah I don't know it's very cool. I surprisingly actually have not gotten my scuba dive license because of the way these events were done and I was by far the only one who had ever done that of course. So yeah, it was pretty cool to to what? Sorry, I was the by far the only one who had not scuba dived. Most people do free diving. They're like, "Oh, I've done so much scuba diving and I want the freedom of not moving the tank." Or actually, this is a what I was most people in our group were spear fishermen. What? And they were like, "Yeah, very crazy." We had two, actually, I'll say two types of people. Oh, that makes sense. Actually, two types of people in our group. A was uh Marines. uh kind of not surprising like they either wanted they're either current Marines wanted to get better at like being able to dive deeper things like this hold their breath in the water do training with that maybe they're former Marines so they're really into it or spear fishermanmen when you have a lot of gear on you and you're like breathing through reparator there's a lot of bubbles scare away the fishes so it's so much easier to spear fish um when you have free diving and on Hawaii it's a big thing actually people will do is spear fish so about half our group was spear fishermanmen half our group was Marines and then there's me me and Rachel who are not none of that. Now Rachel is an average scuba diver so she had some more experience but for me yeah it was it was cool. I mean I I obviously want to get my scuba diving license also. Um but it was a really cool experience. Do you think there's something spiritual or something more uh uh something you you got out of that experience? You know I don't think like it wasn't it definitely wasn't to the level of Kiljaro, right? like there's no question the level of difficulty or anything was not near that that um but I think it was just like a lesson of like it was again showing like okay like it's a matter of will like I don't think like the fact that I got to 20 m on the last one like and it was just a matter of like okay you know what I'm just going to full send it you just have to full send things and I think it was just a matter of that and uh I think it was more of a lesson on along that lines and also I think a lesson of just like Sami Kiljaro, you just should go do things. You don't need to think a lot about am I going to be right prepared? Am I going to be okay? All these things, you should just do it. Most things in life, especially especially in the US, but even outside of the US, most of the time, you know, do your research, but our is safe. Yeah. I find it funny that we started this by saying I think you you said uh as long as it it doesn't kill me, I'll be fine. As long as the risk doesn't kill me, I I'm willing to take it. Well, I I'll just I'll just say a lot of people think I'm very risky. And I don't think of myself as risky because I think I don't An example is motorcycles are very dangerous. And if you look at statistics of motorcycles, they're it's 200 times per mile more dangerous. I don't I don't think I would ever ride a motorcycle on a highway or anything like that. Um because yeah, I mean, I just think the numbers show that if if I'm afraid of something and the numbers show that I shouldn't be afraid, then I need to get over that fear. If the numbers show something, yo, you're actually have a real risk to this and I'm then that makes sense. I think that that's fair, you know. Yeah. Yeah. No, but to to take yourself to the point where I guess where you faint or you're you're at the I guess that's that's like you're not dead, but if I What do I What happens? You know what happens? Fire [ __ ] crazy cool experience. Holy [ __ ] Again, everything I think that I'm not risky. I think the thing is I just see a lot of this stuff as why is that a bad thing? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, if I pass out, you don't get I mean, I know this is crazy, but like you don't get brain damage for a long time. Actually, you can be passed out. Um, if you pass out from from going under water, you can be passed out for 45 minutes without any brain damage. I know it sounds crazy. Yeah. Isn't that crazy? That's actually one of the things that they they taught in the the course frees is is you can be passed out for a ridiculous amount of time without brain damage. So, I knew I'm not I'm going to be fine. Um, I mean, hell, if you're really to be honest, that's not even a bad thing, man. is that that's just a crazy experience and it's a very memorable. Yeah. Yeah. I think one one of the things that um I heard about the Marines training or for for you to become a SEAL, it's like they will still pass someone who maybe failed but failed because they passed up because they brought themselves to that limit. And so when you you were telling your Kiljar story and then you telling me about how you also took that to diving, I think that's a very good reflection of your character. It's like you you take it to that level, you know, to the point where you pass out, but you don't also see that as a risk, which I I think one thing I'll say is, man, when you have direction, I I really believe at least especially for myself, I think when you have direction, it's like do anything. You can do anything. Now, that's not easy. Finding direction is very hard. But man, when I have direction or when I I believe that's when you can take a lot of people have doomsing addictions is because they are so uncertain or they don't have a direction in the throughout the day. And so you need to minimize that that nagging need that your mind is saying I need something to work on. Yeah, I totally agree. And then you go to social media and then you you neutralize the need to do that, but you didn't actually a you didn't b benefit your life and b when you actually are very productive with your day, you feel satisfied and you're like, "Wow, I'm at peace." Right? With doom scrolling, the second you have doom scrolling, you feel extremely not at peace. So you have to go back on to feel peaceful. Yeah. Yeah. It's just a vicious cycle. You know, knowing you, this goes back to our discussion about podcasts and books. I know you said you you said you're trying to become or trying to read read more books and I know you listen to podcasts right now. What I'm surprised that hasn't come up yet. Is your obsession with movies? I know you're really in love with movies. Yeah. Wait, actually I I actually surprised to hear you say I actually don't think I I am so much. Really? Oh, okay. Yeah, I do relate movies, but I don't think I I wouldn't describe myself the way you just said. I don't think I'm that don't think I'm Gotcha. Okay. I think that I mean I can describe I mean I would say I'm I do enjoy movies. I can't talk about I can say that you know I mean I I think that there's such a storytelling and being able to experience something. I don't know especially with some movies man it really immerses yourself in whatever some lesson and stuff. I I don't think Yeah, I don't think I'm particularly obsessed with it because I I do think you're not necessarily improving or experiencing something as much as I don't know. I don't think I'm I'm particularly obsessed with movies. I think But I am I do them. Gotcha. Okay. No, I I guess I'll push back on that a little bit. Yeah. No, that's great. That's great because that was an assumption. I totally thought you were I know Interstellar is your favorite movie. Yeah, I would say point the camera that poster over there for real. And it's so funny. I mean, yeah. I I think Interstellar really just because it is such a captivating plot and also the cinematography and what it stands for is so cool. I think that I I'll actually talk about a different movie. Have you heard of Into the Wild? No. So, hello would recommend. I think especially you would. So, it's based on a true story. This is like another one of my very all-time favorite movies. Um, Into the Wild is based on a true story of this guy who he gets into Harvard and instead of going to Harvard, he runs away from home and ends up saying, "I'm going to travel into as a nomad. I'm just going to live life completely nomatically. I believe, you know, humans should." And his movie is about how he stays with homeless encampments in different cities in a city. He he goes on he runs on trains and then works on farms and he does I mean different things. I I mean so many different things. The whole point is that you know he has refuses to have any kind of technology, no cell phone, anything like that. Um uh and and he just believes in living life raw, very rawly. And you know, even if I'm not actively doing that right now, I'm not doing that right now. I really believe in kind of lessons to take away from that. I think that kind of how we evolved to be in this we evolved to be in this 50 person communities that will go nomatically, stay together, bond together and all these things, right? And we're we're with each other almost all the time, right? And I think as a society, we all live in our separate little boxes and giant buildings and the in apartments. And I just think that we I think that you know we kind of talked at the very the very beginning but I think societal principles are really gone against I gone about convenience and uh avoiding uncomfort uncomfortableness and you know when I in a house in college I always try to strove to live in a big house a lot of people following this right and there are so many moments where I'm bro I just want to be by myself but you know I found when I go out and I'm just like nope I can't do that I have roommates or I have housemates and I'm just going to I even when I didn't have a roommate I live in a house I would try to be like if I feel like that I still go out into the living room and do work there because I I think and and every time I'm rewarded because I end up having a cool conversation with somebody I end up feeling reinvigorated because you know I probably wanted to be myself because I felt drained and and I by talking to somebody I felt I no longer felt drained because you get enlivened by that that

Chapter 22: Final Message

conversation or anything related to And I think that this just echoes again how we evolved to be and I think yeah I'd really I want to live by at least closer to in that that kind of life. Yeah. No. And that was um so my old man died when I was around 12 and I kind I grew up with two what I call godfathers. You know, people who aren't blood related to our family whatsoever, but have always since I was born, they've lived with us. And my dad, my mom would tell me stories about why my dad loved India so much or um I think it was India. Yeah. And what my dad really enjoyed about other countries was exactly what you said. It's like this unification of not only family but friends. It's like there's a story that I heard online where there's seven brothers or uh a group of seven people who all combined bank accounts all live under the same house and all help each other um in the best way that they can. And it's like that is such a foreign concept in the states. And you know, for the longest time, even in high school, I didn't tell people about my godfathers cuz I knew this was different, you know, but I think now it's a I'm very appreciative that I have that perspective and how beneficial it could be. I'm just trying to understand how do you even replicate that? How do you even come close to convincing people that this is the way um or reminding people that uh it's not about the resources, it's not about the individual, it's it's what you can do collectively that's so strong. I mean, you know, I I I I think first of all, you mentioned how to convince people. It's hard. I think because of grown up in a culture that says, "Hey, if you don't feel like going and seeing people, you should just chill by yourself." I feel like people are really okay with doing that, right? And because of that, obviously, study after study shows that Americans are so isolated. I think people who are isolated, it's because when they're uncomfortable, they don't feel going out. They don't go up and they don't do the uncomfortable thing talking to strangers and then they end up isolated. They end up alone in an apartment. It's like because when they do want to see people, there's no one to see. That's reflecting on, you know, when we when humans live in. It's like, yes, it's true. When you didn't want to see people, you still had to see people. But I actually think that's so much more a better a how we evolved, how we it should be as a human. I don't I don't know. It's I first of all, I do think there's ways to change the culture and small ways, but I also think a large part of it really is don't try to change everyone's opinion. Try to find the people who agree with you. And you know, I mean, for instance, I've been looking into houses in SF that believe in community living. And I was thinking about, you know, I'm probably going to at at some point, you know, either join one of those houses or um I really believe in the idea of the people you're working with living with them. Um you know, if you start a company, for instance, I believe that when you live together, it you becomes I mean, first of all, yeah, from a perpetually the company, there's so many improvements, but second of all, let's let's not even ignore that for a second. I think it brings everyone closer together. you end up working towards something as friends, as community, as a family. And I just think it's more reflective of how we evolved and what it means to be human. I I think that Yeah. I don't know. I I really wonder what life would be if instead of having the baseline be 9 to5, living your apartment, commute alone, all these things. What if the baseline was everyone lived together and we I don't know what what if we tried to emulate some sort of nomadicness, you know, because I mean that's I think that lifestyle also kind of emulates the both repeated seeing each other space the space repetition of seeing each other every day but also the novelty of being doing different things, you know, seeing different landscapes, maybe something happens differently. Um yeah, I think it's political, right? Because if if we were all united, then obviously there would be very a lack of control from the government or um there was a better way I wanted to phrase this. Uh yeah, I guess it would be it would be power. It's like it's it's hard to control you if you know you're you have the the backs of everyone. Oh, and so how that's reflected is if you have multiple people under one roof, it's labeled as poverty, right? Well, I I Okay, so I I think I'll maybe push back. I don't know if maybe I don't know if I'm going to say it's going to maybe disagree with you or not. I don't think it's political in the sense of oh, we need to divide people. I think it's more call it political, call it whatever. I think it's a function of larger systems. Okay. So, if you talk to anyone who works at big tech, right, they say, "Oh, well, I work on my this button and I, you know, I'm in and I I you know, I'm not really friends with my co-workers as much. I work in this button and I have, you know, you're kind of, how do I say this? More lone wolf, right?" It's actually kind of counterintuitively at first. When you go to a startup in a small company, you might think there are less people. So therefore, I don't know, it's you have each person interacts with less people maybe, but it's always never like that. It's very determined the smaller the company, the more fluid their lives are, the more fluid the relationships are between each other, more between friendships and all these things, the more closer to the kind of thing we're getting at. I think the reason why our society is structured that is not because someone said we need to be divisive. I think someone said just if I'm trying to create Google I'm trying to control you know 50,000 employees I need to create systems that manage systems that manage systems so many layers of abstraction of systems I think the same way governments and evolutionarily culture so what is evolutionary culture it's the idea that cultures evolve to be better at spreading their beliefs, spreading. Okay, just organisms can evolve. Anything that can either a reproduce itself and b change um can evolve too. And cultures are the same way, right? Cultures that evolved to be good at spreading themselves um are the things that we are left with in society. So as an example, I mean the culture of this is so random, but Native Americans, their culture was nomadic, but that culture led them to not be productive as productive at least not as productive at least as wester more western cultures where you can have bigger systems that work together. Right? Obviously when you have bigger systems there's more efficiency you have a greater output because of that and because of that evolutionary culture evolution kind of basically said this is going to be the way right and I think that it's a matter of big systems that both big cultures that are the way we described are good at controlling big systems and because of evolution how evolution acts on culture we end up with cultures that are good at at at running big systems. Gotcha. Okay. So in other words, or actually I don't think I don't think I thought you were going a direction of saying uh you have to simplify everything in order for it to work. It's not about simplification. It's about I said it's about creating all those layers of abstraction of systems that manage systems manage systems. What you end up with is a bunch of people's boxes and apartment complex and apartment complexes you manage you know this block and everything. You know it's you need things to be rigid. You can't have things be fluid. Yeah. Right. in order to manage it and predict its behavior. And so it's much harder to if you have someone living nomatically for instance, you can't that's not going to be a system that can act as a higher level. I mean, we're tied to our addresses. We're tied to Exactly. You're not going to be able to support bigger people. Um Yeah, that's a very cool take. I never never thought about it that way. Yeah, I think evolution it's an interesting concept. I I I think evolution can act on acts on a lot of things in the way I said where it's if it can spread and change then evolution acts on it. I think that explains a lot of things in our world today. Evolution can spread and change. So if a thing can spread and change in order to act in evolution I think literally the biological definition or something is something has to be able to reproduce and has to be able to react to its environment. Actually that's the definition of life. It has to be able to I mean yeah really if you think about it as long as all it has to do is it'll reproduce and be able to alter itself. Yeah we we there's a a text that I'm just reading in my class right now where they were like wait what we we're trying to interpret the idea of how did our ability to explain germs um how how do we how were we able to explain germs once we started thinking about them as seeds? I think that was kind of the topic of it after reading it. So that's kind of what you're reminding me of right now is how do we how do we explain evolution? Yeah, cuz we're effectively doing selective breeding. Well, yes. Yeah, exactly. Selective breeding. Cuz they probably didn't know about Exactly. Exactly. They probably didn't know evolution at the time, so they thought it more about selective breeding. Before we wrap, is there is there one final message you want to tell the entire world? If we were to both die today, tomorrow, if we were both die, a lot of uh lot of buildup, you know. That's uh yeah, I was going to say I mean really, you know, it goes back to I think what I live for is which is that you should maximize your life. I I I almost I thought about using this word earlier, life maxing. You know, don't just go all out. I think the circles this is probably going to go out to with just people at Berkeley. I think those people already know how to maximize, you know, maybe their career or their or their impact, which is first of all 100% something you should do. And if you're not doing that, I totally believe in doing that. So I I'll say especially but for those circles, you should put the same tenacity into your outside life, into whatever you want to do outside of, you know, your career. If if you're hell, if you're into even just partying, what do how do you bring that to another level? Let's host things. Let's let's make the difference that you see in the world. You think that's cool. Okay, host the biggest one. Spread a different a culture that you um whatever you want to do. Make it make it seen. Make it go all out. And uh I think the other thing is you know find community if push yourself outside your comfort zone especially when it comes to talking to people um and people who are maybe different from you and uh and embrace the power of community. I mean, and surrounding yourself with people. Um, I think for people who are like-minded that, you know, believe in kind of what I'm saying, I've really tried to try to explore. I also mentioned, you know, I want to start a community for those people. And so, I think uh anyone interested that should reach out. I mean, I could leave my contact in the bio. I don't know if I should just share right now, but go ahead. um anyone who you know first of all I mean I want to be very reachable and so if anyone wants to just talk or or do something that you think would fulfill any of the things I talk about I mean you should just text me uh 913 31321000 um and also like I said I'd be starting up that life questers thing soon um which will be more of a formal setting but even before then just text me um and I think that pretty much two guys He his LinkedIn biology says like reach out to me so I can help. Like he means Yeah. Yeah. I I I mean I I love teaching people. I love helping people and just meeting new people in general. It doesn't even have to be to help them. I think that's obviously hopefully something that's come across and so reach out to me. Ethan Jigo to everyone. Thank you so much. I think um not only was I able to I feel energized after this like truly it's like everything from your stories um picking your brain. And I feel like I thought I I think I got a lot out of you today that like even knowing you for a long time like I never knew. And this has been an incredibly fun conversation and um I really love the intensity you move through life with and everything that you do is very simple and yet it's um very impactful and also comes from a lot of experience from yourself. So yeah, thank you so much. Um, really respect the principles too that like you uh you have. So, uh, yeah, that's a wrap. Amazing. Thank you so much for having me on, Magnus. It's been a great It's been a great time. If you made it this far into the episode, I wanted to personally thank you for your support. It means the world to me that you took a few hours out of your day and found value in the conversations that I feel lucky enough to have. This show is possible because of your continued support and I wanted to offer you a deal. If you subscribe to this channel, I will spend every waking moment I have to deliver the highest quality guests for you to learn from and connect with offline. Is that a deal? All right, I'll see you in the next
